---


WotC, Spell Compendium, Babau Slime: Caster’s skin secretes a corrosive slime that damages any weapon or creature striking them in melee.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Backbiter: The next time the target attacks with a melee weapon, the weapon curves back to strike the wielder instead.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Backlash: Target spellcaster takes damage equal to the level of the next spell they attempt to cast.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Baleful Blink: Target blinks in and out of existence, suffering a 50% miss chance on their own attacks and a 50% chance for spells to fail.
WotC, PHB, Baleful Polymorph: Permanently transforms a creature into a small, harmless animal (Will save to retain mentality).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Baleful Transposition: Two target creatures of the same size category instantaneously swap positions.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ball Lightning: Creates 1 to 4 globes of electricity that the caster can direct to deal 1d6/level damage (max 15d6).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Balor Nimbus: Caster’s body is wreathed in flame, dealing 6d6 fire damage to any creature grappling them.
WotC, PHB, Bane: Enemies take a –1 penalty on attack rolls and saves against fear.
WotC, PHB, Banishment: Forces extraplanar creatures back to their home plane (more powerful than Dismissal).
WotC, PHB, Barkskin: Increases the subject's natural armor bonus by +2 (improving with caster level, max +5).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Barrage of Entropic Blades: Creates a flurry of force blades that strike targets in a line for 1d6 damage/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Battlefield Illumination: Increases or decreases the light level in a massive area to facilitate or hinder combat.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Battlemage’s Perception: Grants a +5 bonus on Spellcraft checks to identify spells as they are being cast.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bear’s Endurance: Subject gains +4 to Constitution for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bear’s Endurance, Mass: As Bear’s Endurance, but affects one subject/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Beast Claws: Caster’s hands transform into claws dealing 1d4 damage (or 1d6 if Large) and allow for iterative attacks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Beastmask: Caster takes on the scent and subtle visual cues of a specific animal species to avoid detection by them.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Befuddle: Target’s mental faculties are dulled, causing a –2 penalty to Intelligence and Wisdom.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Belker Claws: Caster’s touch deals 2d12 damage as their hand transforms into a cloud of smoke that enters the subject's lungs.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Benign Transposition: Two willing subjects (including the caster) swap places instantaneously.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bestow Curse: Subject takes a –6 penalty to an ability score, a –4 penalty on rolls, or a 50% chance to lose its action.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bestow Curse, Greater: As Bestow Curse, but penalties are more severe (e.g., –12 to an ability score or –8 on rolls).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bestow Wound: Caster transfers 1hp per level of their own current damage to a touched subject.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Clenched Fist: Large hand provides cover, pushes, or strikes for 1d8+11 damage and stuns the target.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Crushing Hand: Large hand provides cover and can grapple and crush for 2d10+12 damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Forceful Hand: Large hand provides cover and pushes away any creature that attempts to approach.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Grasping Hand: Large hand provides cover and can grapple a target as if with a +12 bonus.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Helping Hand: Creates a hand that can perform tasks, fetch items, or guide the caster.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Interposing Hand: Large hand provides cover (+4 AC) against one specific opponent.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Slapping Hand: A hand makes a touch attack to provoke an attack of opportunity or trip a target.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Striking Fist: A hand strikes a target for 1d6 damage per two levels (max 5d6) and can push them back.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bigby’s Tripping Hand: A hand attempts to trip a target with a bonus based on the caster's primary stat.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Binding: Utilizes various methods (chains, slumber, etc.) to imprison an extraplanar creature.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Binding Winds: Envelops the target in a vortex of air, preventing movement and making spellcasting difficult.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Black Blades of Disaster: Creates a rift in the shape of a sword that disintegrates targets and can strike ethereal beings.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Black Karma Curse: Target's next melee attack is redirected to strike itself.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blacklight: Creates a 20-ft. radius of total darkness that the caster can see through perfectly.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade Barrier: Creates a wall of spinning blades dealing 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade Brothers: Links two allies; if one is affected by a mind-affecting spell, both can roll saves and take the better result.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade of Pain and Fear: Creates a blade of gnashing teeth that deals 1d6+1/two levels damage and causes the target to become frightened.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade of Thorns: Touched wooden weapon or natural weapon deals +1 damage per level (max +10).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade Storm: Caster makes a single melee attack against every creature within reach.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade Thirst: Grants a slashing weapon a +3 enhancement bonus and the keen property.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blade Weave: Each round, one creature struck by the caster's melee weapon must save or be dazed.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blast of Flame: Creates a 60-ft. cone of fire dealing 1d6/level (max 10d6); ignore SR.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blast of Force: Ray of force deals 1d6 damage/2 levels (max 5d6) and knocks the subject prone.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blaze of Light: A 60-ft. cone of light dazzles all creatures within for 1 minute per level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bleed: Touched creature takes 1 point of damage per round until stabilized with a DC 15 Heal check.
WotC, PHB, Bless: Allies gain a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and saves against fear.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bless Water: Creates a flask of holy water (Material: 25gp of silver dust).
WotC, PHB, Bless Weapon: Weapon strikes true against evil foes; automatically confirms critical hits against evil creatures and bypasses DR/good.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blessed Sight: Caster sees the auras of good creatures within 120 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blight: Withers a plant or deals 1d6/level (max 15d6) to a plant creature.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blindness/Deafness: Magically blinds or deafens the subject permanently (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blindsight: Subject gains the blindsight ability with a 30-ft. range.
WotC, PHB, Blink: Caster "blinks" between the Material and Ethereal planes; grants 50% miss chance and ability to strike ethereal foes.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blistering Radiance: Sphere of light deals 2d6 fire damage and dazzles creatures within its radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blood Sirocco: A wind of blood deals 1d6/level damage and knocks targets prone.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Blood to Water: Transforms a portion of the subject's blood into water, dealing 2d6 Constitution damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bloodstar: A floating ruby star hovers near a target; every time the target takes damage, the star deals 1 additional Constitution damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Body Blades: Caster’s body sprouts spikes; deals 1d6+1/level damage to grapplers or when grappling.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Body Harmonic: Caster manipulates the target’s internal frequencies, dealing 1d10 damage to a different ability score each round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bolster Wings: Touched creature’s fly speed increases by 30 ft. and maneuverability improves by one category.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bolt of Glory: A bolt of positive energy deals damage based on the target’s home plane (extra damage to Undead/Evil Outsiders).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bombardment: A rain of rocks deals 1d6/level damage (max 20d6) and buries creatures in the area.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bonefiddle: A spectral bow plays on the target's bones, dealing 1d6 sonic damage/round and distracting them.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Boomerang Casting: Caster’s next touch spell can be delivered as a ray (short range).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Brambles: A wooden melee weapon gains a +1 enhancement bonus and deals +1 damage/level (max +10).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Breath Flare: Caster's next breath weapon also dazzles or blinds targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Briar Web: Plants in the area grow thorns; movement through the area deals damage and causes entanglement.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Briar Web: Plants in the area grow thorns; movement through the area deals 1d6 damage and entangles targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Brilliant Blade: Transforms a weapon or 50 projectiles into brilliant energy, bypassing nonliving matter and armor.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Brilliant Aura: Allies within 30 ft. have their weapons transformed into brilliant energy.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bull’s Strength: Subject gains +4 to Strength for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Bull’s Strength, Mass: As Bull’s Strength, but affects one subject/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Buried Treasure: Caster magically senses the location of the most valuable object within 600 ft. underground.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Burning Blood: Target’s blood catches fire, dealing 1d8 fire and 1d8 acid damage per round; prevents some actions.
WotC, PHB, Burning Hands: A cone of fire deals 1d4/level damage (max 5d4).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Burning Sword: Weapon gains the flaming burst property and sheds light.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cacophonic Shield: Creates a barrier of sound that deals 1d6 +1/level sonic damage and pushes back those who cross it.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Call Armor: Instantaneously summons a set of armor the caster owns and dons it as a free action.
WotC, PHB, Call Lightning: Calls down bolts of lightning from the sky for 3d6 damage (3d10 in stormy weather).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Call Lightning Storm: As Call Lightning, but bolts deal 5d6 damage (5d10 in stormy weather).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Call Mount: Summons a light horse or pony to serve as a mount for 2 hours/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Calm Animals: Calms 2d4 + level HD of animals, making them non-aggressive.
WotC, PHB, Calm Emotions: Calms creatures, negating morale bonuses and suppressing fear or rage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Camouflage: Grants a +10 competence bonus on Hide checks in natural settings.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cast in Stone: Caster’s gaze turns targets to stone (Petrification).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Castigate: Caster shouts a rebuke; foes of different alignments take damage and are deafened.
WotC, PHB, Cat’s Grace: Subject gains +4 to Dexterity for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cat’s Grace, Mass: As Cat’s Grace, but affects one subject/level.
WotC, PHB, Cause Fear: One creature of 5 HD or less becomes frightened for 1d4 rounds.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Chain Dissolve: Targeted acid attack that jumps to secondary targets, dealing 1d6/level damage.
WotC, PHB, Chain Lightning: Primary bolt deals 1d6/level (max 20d6); secondary bolts deal half damage to nearby targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Chain of Eyes: Caster can see through the eyes of a touched subject, then "pass" the sensor to another via touch.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Chain of Wardings: Creates a series of invisible 10-ft. cubes that trigger a selected low-level spell when entered.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Chameleon: Subject's coloring shifts, granting a +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.
WotC, PHB, Change Self: Note: See Disguise Self (3.5 nomenclature); alters caster's appearance.
WotC, PHB, Chaos Hammer: A blast of chaotic energy damages and slows Lawful creatures (1d8/2 levels).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Checkmate: Caster creates a field that prevents a specific creature from moving closer to them.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Chill Metal: Makes metal so cold it damages those touching it (1d4 to 2d4 cold damage).
WotC, PHB, Chill Touch: One touch/level deals 1d6 damage and potentially 1 Str damage or panics undead.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Choice of Card: Caster draws from a deck of cards to gain a random but beneficial temporary buff.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Circle of Death: Kills 1d4 HD/level of creatures in a 40-ft. radius (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Circle of Enervation: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d4 negative levels to all living creatures.
WotC, PHB, Circle of Protection: Note: See Magic Circle Against Evil/Good/Law/Chaos; creates a 10-ft. radius ward.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: Caster can hear or see at a distance for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Claws of the Bear: Caster's hands become claws dealing 1d8 damage (Medium).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cleanse: Caster is cured of blindness, deafness, disease, and poison (self only).
WotC, PHB, Cloak of Chaos: Grants +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against lawful creatures.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cloak of Dark Power: Protects subject from sunlight and grants +4 resistance bonus on saves.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Close Wounds: Caster heals 1d4 + 1/level (max +5) damage as an immediate action.
WotC, PHB, Cloudkill: Kill creatures with 3 HD or less; 4–6 HD must save or die; others take Con damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cloud of Bewilderment: Cone of noxious air stuns and blinds creatures within (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Clutch of Orcus: Caster crushes target's heart, dealing 1d12 damage/round and paralyzing them.
WotC, PHB, Color Spray: Cone of light knocks out, blinds, or stuns creatures based on their HD.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Column of Ice: Creates a 10-ft. wide, 20-ft. high pillar of ice that can lift objects or block paths.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cometfall: A comet strikes the ground, dealing 1d6/level damage (max 15d6) and knocking targets prone.
WotC, PHB, Command: Subject obeys a single-word command (Approach, Drop, Fall, Flee, Halt) for 1 round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Command, Greater: As Command, but affects one subject/level for 1 round/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Command Undead: Caster gains control over an undead creature (automatically for non-intelligent, Will save for intelligent).
WotC, PHB, Commune: Caster asks a deity or powerful entity one yes/no question per level.
WotC, PHB, Commune with Nature: Caster gains knowledge of the surrounding territory (1 mile/level outdoors).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Compassionate Ally: Target feels compelled to aid a fallen or wounded ally, ignoring combat to provide first aid.
WotC, PHB, Comprehend Languages: Caster understands all spoken and written languages.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Compel Breath: Forces a creature with a breath weapon to use it immediately if it is charged.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Comatose: Subject falls into a deep catatonic sleep (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PHB, Cone of Cold: 60-ft. cone deals 1d6 cold damage per level (max 15d6).
WotC, PHB, Confusion: Subjects behave erratically (babbling, attacking nearest, or acting normally) for 1 round/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Confusion, Lesser: As Confusion, but affects one creature for 1 round.
WotC, PHB, Conjure Ice Elemental: Summons an ice elemental of various sizes to fight for the caster.
WotC, PHB, Consecrate: Fills an area with positive energy, weakening undead and empowering turn undead attempts.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Consumptive Field: Caster drains 1d8 hp from all creatures with 0 or fewer hp in a radius, gaining strength and caster levels.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Consumptive Field, Greater: As Consumptive Field, but drains creatures with 9 or fewer hp.
WotC, PHB, Contact Other Plane: Caster sends their mind to another plane to seek information; risk of Intelligence/Charisma decrease.
WotC, PHB, Contagion: Subject is infected with a chosen disease immediately (no incubation period).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Contagion, Greater: As Contagion, but the disease is harder to cure and deals more damage.
WotC, PHB, Contingency: Sets a "trigger" condition for another spell to cast itself automatically.
WotC, PHB, Continual Flame: Creates a permanent, heatless flame (Material: 50gp ruby dust).
WotC, PHB, Control Water: Caster raises or lowers the level of a body of water.
WotC, PHB, Control Weather: Caster changes the weather in the local area for 4d12 hours.
WotC, PHB, Control Winds: Caster changes wind direction and speed (from light to hurricane force).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Conviction: Subject gains a +2 morale bonus on all saving throws (improves with level, max +5).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Conviction, Mass: As Conviction, but affects all allies in a 20-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Corellon’s Mirror: Caster’s shield or blade reflects gaze attacks and certain rays back at the attacker.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Corona of Cold: Caster is surrounded by a field of frost; nearby enemies take 1d12 cold damage and a –2 penalty to Strength and Dexterity.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Corporeal Instability: Subject's form becomes a spongy, useless mass; deals 1 Wisdom drain per round and prevents most actions.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Countermoon: Forces a lycanthrope to return to its humanoid form and prevents it from shifting for the duration.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Crawling Darkness: A shroud of dark tentacles grants the caster concealment and a +4 competence bonus to AC.
WotC, PHB, Create Food and Water: Creates enough simple food and water to sustain three humans or one horse per level for 24 hours.
WotC, PHB, Create Greater Undead: Creates shadows, wraiths, spectres, or devourers from corpses (requires Black Onyx Gems).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Create Magic Tattoo: Inscribes a tattoo that provides a +1 luck bonus on attacks, a +2 resistance bonus on saves, or other minor buffs.
WotC, PHB, Create Undead: Creates ghouls, ghasts, mummies, or mohrgs from corpses (requires Black Onyx Gems).
WotC, PHB, Create Water: Creates 2 gallons of pure water per level.
WotC, PHB, Creeping Doom: Summons four massive swarms of centipedes that attack as directed (deals 2d6 damage + poison).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Critical Strike: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 damage, gains a +4 bonus to confirm critical hits, and ignores concealment.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Crown of Brilliance: Caster sheds blinding light (20-ft. radius); undead and light-sensitive creatures take 1d6 damage/round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Crown of Might: Subject gains a +2 enhancement bonus to Strength; can discharge the spell for a +8 bonus on one check.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Crown of Protection: Subject gains a +1 deflection bonus to AC and a +1 resistance bonus on saves; can discharge for +4.
WotC, PHB, Crushing Despair: Subjects take a –2 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, ability checks, skill checks, and weapon damage.
WotC, PHB, Cure Critical Wounds: Cures 4d8 damage + 1/level (max +20).
WotC, PHB, Cure Critical Wounds, Mass: As Cure Critical Wounds, but cures one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, PHB, Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 damage + 1/level (max +5).
WotC, PHB, Cure Light Wounds, Mass: As Cure Light Wounds, but cures one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, PHB, Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 damage + 1/level (max +10).
WotC, PHB, Cure Moderate Wounds, Mass: As Cure Moderate Wounds, but cures one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, PHB, Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 damage + 1/level (max +15).
WotC, PHB, Cure Serious Wounds, Mass: As Cure Serious Wounds, but cures one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Curse of Ill Fortune: Subject takes a –3 luck penalty on attack rolls, saves, ability checks, and skill checks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Curse of Impending Misfortune: Subject takes a –3 penalty on attack rolls and saves (lasts until a specific event or Remove Curse).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Curse of Lycanthropy: Subject contracts lycanthropy (Werewolf) if they fail a Fortitude save.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Curse of the Brute: Caster gains a +1 to +5 bonus to Str, Dex, or Con, but takes an equal penalty to Int and Cha.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cutaneous Magic: Touched subject gains DR 10/magic for 10 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Cyclonic Blast: Creates a 20-ft.-wide, 100-ft.-long line of wind dealing 1d6/level damage (max 15d6) and knocking targets back.
WotC, PHB, Dancing Lights: Creates four torch-like lights or a glowing humanoid shape under the caster's control.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dance of the Unicorn: A swirling mist of purified air protects the caster and allies from inhaled toxins and gases.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Darkbolt: Caster fires rays of darkness (1 ray/3 levels) dealing 2d8 damage and potentially stunning targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Darkfire: Caster’s hands or a held object glow with cold black fire, dealing 1d6/2 levels fire damage on a touch or thrown attack.
WotC, PHB, Darkness: Creates a 20-ft. radius of shadowy illumination (20% miss chance).
WotC, PHB, Darkvision: Subject can see up to 60 ft. in total darkness (black and white only).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Darkvision, Gtr: As Darkvision, but see up to 120 ft. and can discern color.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Darkvision, Mass: As Darkvision, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dark Way: Creates a bridge of force up to 20 ft./level long that can support up to 200 lbs./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Darting Shadow: Caster gains a +10 bonus on Jump checks and can make a 5-ft. step as an immediate action.
WotC, PHB, Daylight: Object sheds bright light in a 60-ft. radius, overlapping Darkness.
WotC, PHB, Daze: One humanoid of 4 HD or less loses its next action (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Daze Monster: As Daze, but affects any creature type up to 6 HD.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Deafening Clang: Touched weapon deals +1d6 sonic damage and deafens targets on a successful hit.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Death Armor: Caster is surrounded by a black aura; anyone striking with a non-reach melee weapon takes 1d4 + 1/2 levels damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Death Knell: Caster kills a creature at -1 to -9 hp, gaining 1d8 temporary hp, +2 Str, and +1 caster level.
WotC, PHB, Death Ward: Subject is immune to all death spells, magical death effects, and energy drain.
WotC, PHB, Deeper Darkness: Object sheds shadowy illumination in a 60-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Deep Breath: Caster’s lungs instantly fill with air; can be cast as an immediate action to avoid drowning or suffocation.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Deep Slumber: Puts 10 HD of creatures into a comatose sleep (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Defenestrating Sphere: A sphere of wind hurls creatures into the air, dealing fall damage and potentially throwing them 1d6 x 10 ft. away.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Deflect: Caster gains a deflection bonus to AC equal to 1/2 caster level against a single attack (Immediate Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dehydrate: Touched creature takes 1d6/level desiccating damage (max 10d6) and is fatigued.
WotC, PHB, Delayed Blast Fireball: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 20d6); caster can delay the explosion up to 5 rounds.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Delay Death: Subject cannot die from hit point damage, remaining alive even at –10 hp or lower.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Delay Poison: Subject is immune to poison effects for 1 hour/level, after which the poison takes effect.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Delusions of Grandeur: Subject believes they are more powerful than they are, taking –2 to AC, saves, and checks.
WotC, PHB, Demand: As Suggestion, but delivered via Whispering Wind or Sending across any distance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Demonhide: Evil subject gains DR 5/cold iron and good for 1 min./level.
WotC, PHB, Desecrate: Fills area with negative energy, buffing undead and penalizing turn undead attempts.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Desert: Note: Usually refers to environmental spells like Sandstorm or Habub.
WotC, PHB, Destruction: Target takes 10 damage/level (max 100); if they die, they are consumed by holy fire and cannot be raised normally.
WotC, PHB, Detect Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Reveals the presence and strength of a specific alignment's aura in a 60-ft. cone.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Detect Dragonmark: Detects the presence and strength of dragonmarks on creatures.
WotC, PHB, Detect Magic: Detects spells and magic items within a 60-ft. cone.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Detect Metal and Stone: Detects a specific type of metal or stone within 60 ft.
WotC, PHB, Detect Poison: Detects poison in a creature, object, or area.
WotC, PHB, Detect Scrying: Caster becomes aware of any attempt to observe them via scrying/divination.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Detect Secret Doors: Reveals hidden passages or doors within 60 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Detect Ship: Caster detects any ship or large vessel within 1 mile/level.
WotC, PHB, Detect Thoughts: Caster "listens" to surface thoughts of creatures in a 60-ft. cone.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Detect Undead: Reveals the presence of undead within 60 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Detect Weaponry: Detects the presence of weapons on a person or in an area.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Devil’s Eye: Caster can see through magical and non-magical darkness up to 30 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Diamondsteel: Touched armor gains DR 5/adamantine.
WotC, PHB, Dictum: Lawful word kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens non-lawful creatures based on HD.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dimension Door: Teleports caster and allies up to 400 ft. + 40 ft./level; no actions allowed after casting.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dimension Door, Greater: As Dimension Door, but caster can teleport once per round for the duration.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dimension Jumper: Caster can teleport 30 ft. as a move action each round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dimensional Anchor: Green ray prevents a target from using any extradimensional travel (teleport, blink, etc.).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dimensional Lock: Creates a 20-ft. radius shimmering field that completely blocks extradimensional travel.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Diminish Plants: Caster reduces size or stunts the growth of normal plants in a large area.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dirge: Caster plays a song that deals 2 points of Strength and Dexterity damage per round to undead.
WotC, PHB, Discern Lies: Caster knows if a subject is deliberately speaking a lie (up to 1 subject/level).
WotC, PHB, Discern Location: Instantly reveals the exact location of a creature or object; bypasses almost all magical protections.
WotC, PHB, Disintegrate: Thin green ray deals 2d6 damage/level (max 40d6); if reduced to 0 hp, the target is turned to fine dust.
WotC, PHB, Dismissal: Forces an extraplanar creature back to its home plane (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dispel Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Caster gains a +4 deflection bonus and can discharge the spell to banish an aligned creature or end an aligned spell.
WotC, PHB, Dispel Magic: Targeted, area, or counterspell attempt to end ongoing magical effects (Caster Level check vs 11 + Spell’s CL).
WotC, PHB, Dispel Magic, Greater: As Dispel Magic, but with a higher maximum bonus (+20) and can strip multiple effects.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dispelling Breath: Caster’s breath weapon acts as a targeted Dispel Magic against every creature hit.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dispelling Screen: Creates a shimmering violet wall; any creature or spell passing through is subject to a targeted dispel.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dispelling Screen, Greater: As Dispelling Screen, but uses Greater Dispel Magic parameters.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Displacement: Subject’s form appears to be 2 ft. away from its actual position, granting a 50% miss chance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Disrupt Undead: Ray of positive energy deals 1d6 damage to an undead creature.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Disrupting Weapon: Touched melee weapon gains the power to instantly destroy undead (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Distract: Subject takes a –4 penalty on Listen, Search, Sense Motive, and Spot checks (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Distract Assailant: Subject is considered flat-footed until the beginning of its next turn (Swift Action).
WotC, PHB, Divination: Caster receives a cryptic rhyme or omen regarding a specific action taken in the next week.
WotC, PHB, Divine Favor: Caster gains a +1 luck bonus on attack and weapon damage rolls for every 3 levels (max +3).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Divine Insight: Caster gains a +5 to +15 insight bonus (based on level) on a single immediate skill check.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Divine Power: Caster’s Base Attack Bonus becomes equal to their character level; gains +6 enhancement bonus to Strength and 1 temporary hp/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Divine Protection: Caster and allies within 20 ft. gain a +1 morale bonus to AC and saving throws.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Divine Sacrifice: Caster sacrifices 2 hp per attack to deal an extra 1d8 (up to 5d8) damage on a successful hit.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dolorous Blow: Touched weapon's critical threat range is doubled and automatically confirms critical hits.
WotC, PHB, Dominate Animal: Caster guides an animal via a telepathic link; subject obeys all commands (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Dominate Monster: As Dominate Person, but affects any creature type.
WotC, PHB, Dominate Person: Caster controls a humanoid telepathically (Will negates; +2 bonus to save if command is against its nature).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Doom: Target is filled with a sense of dread, becoming shaken (–2 on attacks, saves, and checks).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Draconic Might: Subject gains +4 enhancement bonus to Str, Con, and Cha, plus a +4 natural armor bonus and immunity to magic sleep/paralysis.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Draconic Polymorph: As Polymorph, but subject can take the form of a dragon (up to its own HD) and gains stat bonuses.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dragonblood Spell-Pact: Multiple subjects with the dragonblood subtype trade known spells of the same level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dragon Breath: Caster gains a breath weapon (type depends on dragon chosen) dealing 1d8/2 levels damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dragonsight: Caster gains darkvision (up to 10 ft./level), blindsense (5 ft./level), and sees through smoke/fog.
WotC, PHB, Dream: Caster sends a messenger to deliver a dream-message to a sleeping subject.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Drown: Caster fills the target’s lungs with water; target falls to 0 hp and begins dying (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dualward: Caster creates a field that allows them to counterspell two spells simultaneously.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Duelward: Caster gains a +4 insight bonus on initiative and can counterspell as an immediate action.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Dust to Dust: Deals 1d8/level (max 10d8) to undead; those killed are reduced to fine dust (Fortitude half).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Eagle’s Splendor: Subject gains +4 to Charisma for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Eagle’s Splendor, Mass: As Eagle’s Splendor, but affects one subject/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Earth Lock: Caster magically seals a tunnel or passage in earth or stone, making it nearly impossible to open.
WotC, PHB, Earthquake: Intense tremor causes structures to collapse and creates fissures (Reflex to avoid falling).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ebon Ray of Doom: Black ray deals 1d4 Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution damage and prevents healing.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Echo Skull: Caster can see, hear, and speak through a prepared animal skull as if they were present.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Edibility: Caster makes an object appear (and taste) like delicious food to a specific creature.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Effulgent Epuration: Creates shimmering orbs (1 per level) that each negate a single targeted spell or spell-like ability.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Electric Jolt: Ranged touch attack deals 1d3 electricity damage (intended as a cantrip).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Electric Loop: Electricity jumps between up to 3 targets, dealing 1d6/2 levels (max 5d6) and potentially stunning.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Elemental Body: Caster gains the Elemental Type (Air, Earth, Fire, or Water), becoming immune to crits, poison, sleep, and paralysis.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Elemental Monolith: Summons a Colossal-sized elemental monolith to crush foes (requires concentration).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Elemental Swarm: Summons a succession of 2d4 Large, 1d4 Huge, and 1 Greater elemental over several rounds.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Elemental Ward: Caster creates a 10-ft. radius that prevents elementals of a specific type from entering.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Elation: Allies gain a +2 morale bonus to Strength and Dexterity, plus a +5 ft. increase to base land speed.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Embalm: Preserves a corpse indefinitely and grants it +2 natural armor if it is later animated as a zombie.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Emblem of Greed: Touched weapon becomes a +1 flaming burst weapon; caster’s BAB becomes equal to their level when using it.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Embrace the Wild: Caster gains the senses of a specific animal, including low-light vision, scent, or a +2 to +4 bonus to Listen/Spot.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Emerald Burst: 20-ft. radius burst of green light dazes or stuns all neutral or evil creatures (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Energy Admixture: [Metamagic] Modifies a spell with one energy type to add an equal amount of a second energy type (e.g., Fire + Cold).
WotC, PHB, Energy Drain: Subject gains 2d4 negative levels; if levels exceed total HD, the subject dies.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Energy Immunity: Subject is completely immune to one energy type (Acid, Cold, Electricity, Fire, or Sonic).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Energy Resistance: Note: See Resist Energy; provides 10/20/30 resistance to an energy type.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Energy Spheres: Creates five colored spheres of different energy types that the caster can fire as rays or use as a shield.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Energy Transformation Field: Links a 40-ft. area to a specific spell; any magic cast in the area fuels the "anchored" spell instead.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Energy Vulnerability: Subject takes 50% more damage from a specific energy type (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PHB, Enervation: Pointy black ray deals 1d4 negative levels for 1 hour/level.
WotC, PHB, Enlarge Person: Subject’s size increases by one category; gains +2 Strength, –2 Dexterity, and –1 to AC/attacks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Enlarge Person, Greater: As Enlarge Person, but lasts 1 hour/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Enlarge Person, Mass: As Enlarge Person, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Entangle: Plants in a 40-ft. radius entwine around creatures, making them entangled (Reflex negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Enthrall: Caster’s speech captivates an audience, making them indifferent for as long as the caster speaks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Entice Gift: Subject is compelled to hand the caster whatever object it is currently holding (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Entomb: Caster traps the subject in a block of ice or earth, dealing 1d6 damage/level and suffocating it.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Entropic Shield: A field of chaotic energy surrounds the caster, granting a 20% miss chance against ranged attacks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Enveloping Cocoon: Target is wrapped in a thick, magical webbing that prevents movement and spellcasting.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Erase: Caster removes magical or mundane writing from a scroll, book, or surface.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Essence of the Raptor: Caster gains a +8 bonus to Hide, Jump, Listen, Move Silently, and Spot; speed increases to 60 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Estanna’s Stew: Creates a magical stew that heals 1d6+1 per serving (up to 1 serving/2 levels).
WotC, PHB, Ethereal Jaunt: Caster becomes ethereal for 1 round/level, allowing movement through solid objects and invisibility.
WotC, PHB, Etherealness: As Ethereal Jaunt, but affects the caster and one subject/3 levels for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Evard’s Black Tentacles: 20-ft. radius of rubbery tentacles grapples everyone in the area (deals 1d6+4 damage/round).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Executioner’s Eyes: Caster and allies within 30 ft. gain a +4 insight bonus on attack rolls and can see through any concealment.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Exorcism: Forces a possessing spirit or entity out of a body (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Expeditious Retreat: Caster’s base land speed increases by 30 ft. for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Expeditious Retreat, Swift: As Expeditious Retreat, but cast as a swift action for 1 round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Exploding Rune Field: Creates an area of invisible runes that explode for 1d6/level force damage when triggered.
WotC, PHB, Explosive Runes: Inscribes a rune that deals 6d6 force damage to anyone reading it (no save for the reader).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Expose Adultery: Caster determines if a subject has been unfaithful to a spouse or partner (Divination).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Extract Drug: Caster magically extracts a dose of a specific drug from a plant or organic material.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Extract Water Elemental: Caster pulls the water from a target's body (7d6 damage), creating a water elemental from the remains.
WotC, PHB, Eyebite: Caster’s gaze can sicken, panic, or comatose targets (one target/round).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fabricate: Transforms raw materials into a finished product (e.g., iron into a sword, flax into cloth).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Face of the Deity: Caster takes on an aspect of their deity, gaining resistances and stat boosts (+2 to +4).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Face of the Deity, Greater: As Face of the Deity, but grants wings, SR, and +4 to +6 stat bonuses.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Faerie Fire: Outlines creatures in a pale glow, negating concealment from blur, displacement, or invisibility.
WotC, PHB, False Life: Caster gains 1d10 + 1/level (max +10) temporary hit points for 1 hour/level.
WotC, PHB, False Vision: Creates an illusory scene within a 20-ft. radius that fools any scrying attempt.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Familiar Pocket: Creates an extradimensional space within the caster’s clothing to safely house a familiar.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fanfare: Caster creates a blast of trumpets that stuns, deafens, and deals 4d6 sonic damage (Reflex/Will).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fang Cloud: Creates a 20-ft. radius cloud of tiny, flying teeth dealing 2d6 damage per round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Favorable Sacrifice: Caster makes an offering of 100gp–25,000gp to gain DR, resistance, and SR based on the value.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Favor of the Martyr: Subject (must be Paladin) gains immunity to charm, fear, fatigue, exhaustion, and pain.
WotC, PHB, Fear: 60-ft. cone of invisible energy causes creatures to become panicked for 1 round/level (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fearsome Gaze: Caster gains a gaze attack that causes targets to become shaken or frightened (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Feather Fall: Subject falls slowly (60 ft./round), taking no damage upon landing (Immediate Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Feather Weight: Increases the jump distance and reduces the weight of an object or creature by half.
WotC, PHB, Feeblemind: Target’s Intelligence and Charisma scores drop to 1 (Will negates; –4 penalty if target is a caster).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Feedback: Caster deals 1d8 sonic damage per level of a spell currently being maintained by a target.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Feliche’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Chaotic subtype that must be obeyed (Enchantment; Chaos).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ferocity of Wild Animals: Caster and allies gain a +2 morale bonus to Strength and Dexterity (Druid/Ranger only).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Festivus: Creates an area of illusory celebration that fascinates creatures within.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fetid Breath: 15-ft. cone of foul air causes targets to become nauseated for 1 round (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Field of Ghouls: Any creature with 0 or fewer hp in the area must save or die and immediately rise as a ghoul.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fiendish Clarity: Caster gains darkvision 60 ft., the ability to see in magical darkness, and can See Invisibility.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fiendish Quickening: Caster can cast two spells of 3rd level or lower as a single standard action once per day.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Find the Gap: Caster’s first melee or ranged attack each round ignores the target's armor and natural armor bonuses.
WotC, PHB, Find the Path: Subject finds the shortest, most direct physical route to a specified destination.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Find Traps: Caster gains the Trapfinding ability and a +1/2 level bonus on Search checks for 1 min./level.
WotC, PHB, Finger of Death: Kills one subject (Fortitude negates; if save succeeds, target takes 3d6 + 1/level damage).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fin To Feet: Transforms a creature's fins or flippers into legs and feet, allowing land movement.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fire and Brimstone: A burst of fire deals 1d6/level damage (max 15d6) and potentially sickens targets.
WotC, PHB, Fireball: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 10d6); Reflex half.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Firebrand: Caster creates one 10-ft. burst per level (max 15), each dealing 1d6 fire damage/level (max 15d6).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fireburst: Adjacent creatures take 1d8 fire damage/level (max 5d8); Reflex half.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fireburst, Greater: As Fireburst, but deals 1d10/level (max 15d10) in a 10-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fire Eyes: Caster sees through normal and magical fire, smoke, and fog up to 120 ft.
WotC, PHB, Fire Seeds: Creates 4 explosive acorns (1d6/level) or 8 holly berries (1d8 + 1/level) that explode on impact.
WotC, PHB, Fire Shield: Wreathes caster in "warm" or "chill" flames; deals 1d6+1/level damage to melee attackers and grants resistance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fire Shuriken: Creates 1 fiery shuriken/2 levels; each deals 3d6 fire damage + crit (no Str bonus).
WotC, PHB, Fire Storm: Two 10-ft. cubes per level deal 1d6 fire damage/level (max 20d6).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fire Trap: Object deals 1d4 + 1/level fire damage when opened by anyone other than the caster.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fire Wings: Caster’s arms become wings of fire, granting a fly speed of 60 ft. and 2d6 fire damage on touch.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fist of Stone: Caster’s hand becomes stone, granting +6 enhancement bonus to Strength and a 1d6 slam attack.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flame Arrow: Imbues 50 projectiles with +1d6 fire damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flame Blade: Creates a scimitar of fire that deals 1d8 + 1/2 levels fire damage as a touch attack.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flame Dagger: Creates a dagger of fire dealing 1d4 + 1/level fire damage (max +10) as a touch attack.
WotC, PHB, Flame Strike: 10-ft. radius cylinder deals 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6); half damage is fire, half is divine power.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flames of the Purity: Touched creature is wreathed in fire, gaining +1d6 fire damage on melee attacks and resistance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flamelash: Caster creates a whip of fire dealing 1d6 + 1/level fire damage (max +15) with reach.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flapping Entrails: Caster’s entrails become tentacles that can grapple and deal 1d6 damage/round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flare: Dazzles one creature (–1 on attack rolls) for 1 minute; Fortitude negates.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flare, Burst: As Flare, but affects all creatures in a 10-ft. radius burst.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flash-Freeze: Instantly freezes a 10-ft. cube of water/level; deals 1d6/level damage to aquatic creatures.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flesh Armor: Touched subject gains DR 10/magic for 10 min./level.
WotC, PHB, Flesh to Stone: Target is permanently transformed into a statue (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flexform: Subject becomes incredibly flexible, gaining +10 on Escape Artist and +4 to AC against attacks of opportunity.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flight of the Dragon: Caster sprouts wings, gaining a fly speed of 100 ft. (Average) for 10 min./level. Spell Compendium
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flint Strike: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 fire damage and may ignite flammable objects.
WotC, PHB, Floating Disk: Creates a circular plane of force that follows the caster and carries up to 100 lbs./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flowsight: Caster views past or present events occurring in or near a body of water.
WotC, PHB, Fly: Subject gains a fly speed of 60 ft. (Good) for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fly, Mass: As Fly, but affects one subject/level within a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flying Mind: Caster’s consciousness leaves their body to scout, moving at 30 ft. (Perfect) as an incorporeal sensor.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Foam of the Ocean: Creates a 20-ft. radius of sea foam that grants concealment and heals 1 hp/round to aquatic creatures.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Focus Sphere: Creates a 10-ft. radius sphere that empowers specific spells cast within it.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Foebane: Touched weapon gains a +2 enhancement bonus and deals +2d6 damage against one specific creature type.
WotC, PHB, Fog Cloud: Creates a 20-ft. radius of thick fog, granting concealment (20%) or total concealment (50%). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fog of Forgetfulness: 20-ft. radius fog causes creatures to lose memory of the last 1d4 minutes (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Font of Consolation: Caster gains temporary hit points whenever an ally is reduced to 0 or fewer hp.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Armor: Caster gains a +4 armor bonus to AC; stacks with other armor (Force effect).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Blast: 60-ft. cone of force deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) and knocks targets prone.
WotC, PHB, Forcecage: Creates an immobile, invisible cubical cage or windowless cell of force (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Claw: Creates a Medium-sized claw of force that can grapple and pin targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Ladder: Creates a 10-ft. to 60-ft. ladder of force that is invisible and weightless.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Missiles: Caster fires two missiles/3 levels (max 10); each deals 1d4+1 force damage (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Screen: Creates an invisible disk of force that provides a +4 shield bonus to AC.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Wave: 10-ft. radius burst of force pushes all creatures back 10 ft. (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PHB, Foresight: Caster gains a "sixth sense," receiving a +2 insight bonus to AC and Reflex; never flat-footed. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Forest Child: Caster creates 1d4+1 illusory duplicates of themselves while in a forest environment.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Forest Eyes: Caster can see through leaves, vines, and undergrowth as if they were transparent.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Forest Fold: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Hide and Move Silently checks in a forest.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flight of the Dragon: Caster sprouts wings, gaining a fly speed of 100 ft. (Average) for 10 min./level. Spell Compendium
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flint Strike: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 fire damage and may ignite flammable objects.
WotC, PHB, Floating Disk: Creates a circular plane of force that follows the caster and carries up to 100 lbs./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flowsight: Caster views past or present events occurring in or near a body of water.
WotC, PHB, Fly: Subject gains a fly speed of 60 ft. (Good) for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fly, Mass: As Fly, but affects one subject/level within a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Flying Mind: Caster’s consciousness leaves their body to scout, moving at 30 ft. (Perfect) as an incorporeal sensor.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Foam of the Ocean: Creates a 20-ft. radius of sea foam that grants concealment and heals 1 hp/round to aquatic creatures.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Focus Sphere: Creates a 10-ft. radius sphere that empowers specific spells cast within it.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Foebane: Touched weapon gains a +2 enhancement bonus and deals +2d6 damage against one specific creature type.
WotC, PHB, Fog Cloud: Creates a 20-ft. radius of thick fog, granting concealment (20%) or total concealment (50%). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Fog of Forgetfulness: 20-ft. radius fog causes creatures to lose memory of the last 1d4 minutes (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Font of Consolation: Caster gains temporary hit points whenever an ally is reduced to 0 or fewer hp.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Armor: Caster gains a +4 armor bonus to AC; stacks with other armor (Force effect).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Blast: 60-ft. cone of force deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) and knocks targets prone.
WotC, PHB, Forcecage: Creates an immobile, invisible cubical cage or windowless cell of force (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Claw: Creates a Medium-sized claw of force that can grapple and pin targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Ladder: Creates a 10-ft. to 60-ft. ladder of force that is invisible and weightless.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Missiles: Caster fires two missiles/3 levels (max 10); each deals 1d4+1 force damage (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Screen: Creates an invisible disk of force that provides a +4 shield bonus to AC.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Force Wave: 10-ft. radius burst of force pushes all creatures back 10 ft. (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PHB, Foresight: Caster gains a "sixth sense," receiving a +2 insight bonus to AC and Reflex; never flat-footed. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Forest Child: Caster creates 1d4+1 illusory duplicates of themselves while in a forest environment.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Forest Eyes: Caster can see through leaves, vines, and undergrowth as if they were transparent.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Forest Fold: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Hide and Move Silently checks in a forest.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Glibness: Subject gains a +30 bonus on Bluff checks and can bypass magical truth-detection (e.g., Zone of Truth). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Glitterdust: 10-ft. radius cloud outlines invisible creatures and potentially blinds those within (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Globe of Invulnerability: Creates an immobile 10-ft. radius sphere that excludes all 1st- through 4th-level spell effects. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser: As Globe of Invulnerability, but excludes 1st- through 3rd-level spell effects.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Golem Enlightenment: Touched golem gains Intelligence, allowing it to take feats and gain skills.
WotC, PHB, Goodberry: Transforms 2d4 berries into magical food that heals 1 hp (max 8 hp/day) and provides nourishment.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Grasping Hand: Note: See Bigby's Grasping Hand; creates a hand that grapples foes.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Grave Strike: Caster can deliver sneak attacks against undead for 1 round (Swift Action).
WotC, PHB, Grease: Surfaces or objects become slippery, requiring a Balance check or causing items to be dropped. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Greater...: Note: This is a prefix; see specific spell names (e.g., Invisibility, Greater).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Greenfire: Caster creates a wall or floor of green fire dealing 2d6 + 1/level damage (max +20).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Grounding: Protects the subject from electricity damage by shunting the energy into the earth.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Guidance: Subject gains a +1 competence bonus on a single attack roll, save, or check. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Guiding Light: 20-ft. radius burst outlines targets, granting a +2 bonus on ranged attacks against them.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Gust of Wind: 60-ft. line of strong wind knocks down Small creatures and disperses vapors. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Haboob: Creates a 20-ft. radius sandstorm that deals 1d4 damage/round and obscures vision.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hail of Stone: A rain of rocks deals 1d4 damage/level (max 5d4) in a 5-ft. radius (No Save/No SR).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hallow: Designates a site as holy, granting Magic Circle against Evil and a fixed spell effect (e.g., Bless). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Halt: Target must stop moving immediately and cannot move for 1 round (Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Halt Undead: Renders up to three undead immobile for 1 round/level (Will negates for intelligent undead). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Hammer of Justice: Deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) to a target and stuns it for 1 round (Will half).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hardening: Permanently increases the hardness of an object by 1 for every 2 caster levels.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Harmonize: Caster can start a bardic music performance as a move action rather than a standard action.
WotC, PHB, Harm: Deals 10 points of damage/level (max 150) to a living creature (Will half). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Haste: Allies within 30 ft. gain an extra attack, +1 on attacks, +1 AC/Reflex, and +30 ft. speed. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Heal: Instantly cures 10 hp/level (max 150), and removes blindness, deafness, disease, exhaustion, fatigue, feeblemind, insanity, nausea, poison, and stun. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Heal, Mass: As Heal, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heal Mount: As Heal, but functions only on the caster's special mount (Paladin).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Healing Circle: Note: See Cure Light Wounds, Mass; heals allies in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Healing Spirit: Summons a 1-ft. ball of light that heals 1d8 + 1/level to one creature per round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heart of Air: Subject gains a +10 enhancement bonus on Jump checks and +10 ft. to fly speed; can expend to gain Feather Fall.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heart of Earth: Subject gains temporary hit points (2/level, max 30) and +8 to resist bull rush/overrun; can expend for Stoneskin.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heart of Fire: Subject gains +10 ft. to land speed and 10 fire resistance; can expend for Fire Shield.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heart of Water: Subject gains a swim speed, ability to breathe water, and +8 on Escape Artist; can expend for Freedom of Movement.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heat Metal: Makes metal so hot it damages those touching it (1d4 to 2d4 fire damage). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Helping Hand: A ghostly hand finds a person and beckons them to follow it back to the caster.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Herald’s Call: Caster shouts a word that slows and potentially dazes creatures of 5 HD or less.
WotC, PHB, Heroes' Feast: Creates a magical banquet that grants 12 creatures 1d8+1/2 level temporary hp, and immunity to poison/fear for 12 hours. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heroism: Subject gains a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls, saves, and skill checks. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Heroism, Greater: As Heroism, but provides a +4 morale bonus and immunity to fear.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hex: Note: Often refers to Bestow Curse or specific Warlock/Hexblade class abilities.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hibernation: Puts a touched animal into a deep, healing sleep for up to 1 day/level.
WotC, PHB, Hideous Laughter: Subject falls prone with laughter, unable to take actions for 1 round/level (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hide from Animals: Animals cannot see, hear, or smell the subjects (1 subject/level).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hide from Undead: Undead cannot see, hear, or smell the subjects (1 subject/level).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hindering Light: Subject is protected from light-based attacks and gaze attacks for 1 round/level.
WotC, PHB, Hold Animal: Paralyzes one animal (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Hold Monster: Paralyzes any one creature (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Hold Monster, Mass: As Hold Monster, but affects any number of creatures in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, PHB, Hold Person: Paralyzes one humanoid (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Hold Person, Mass: Paralyzes multiple humanoids in a 30-ft. radius (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hold Portal: Magically bars a door, gate, or window for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hold Undead: Paralyzes 1d4 undead in a 60-ft. radius (Will negates for intelligent undead).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Holy Aura: Allies within 20 ft. gain +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against evil spells. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Holy Shield: Caster’s shield provides its bonus to all adjacent allies.
WotC, PHB, Holy Smite: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d8 damage/2 levels (max 5d8) and blinds evil creatures (Will half). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Holy Star: Creates a mote that can provide a +6 deflection bonus, reflect spells, or fire 1d4+3 fire rays.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Holy Sword: Touched weapon becomes a +5 holy weapon and emits a Magic Circle Against Evil. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Holy Transformation: Caster takes on an angelic form, gaining +4 Str/Con, fly speed, and protective auras.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Holy Transformation, Lesser: As Holy Transformation, but +2 bonuses and no wings.
WotC, PHB, Holy Word: Kills, paralyzes, blinds, or deafens non-good creatures based on HD (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Horrid Wilting: Evaporates moisture from creatures in a radius, dealing 1d6 damage/level (max 20d6). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hound of Doom: Caster’s shadow becomes a Medium-sized "hound" that fights with the caster's BAB.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Howling Chain: Creates a chain of force that trips and strikes foes for 2d6 damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hunter’s Eye: Caster gains +1d6 sneak attack damage for every 3 levels for 1 round (Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hunter’s Mercy: Caster’s next hit with a bow is an automatic critical hit (Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hydrate: Touched creature is cured of fatigue and dehydration (reverses Dehydrate).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Hypnotic Pattern: Twisting colors fascinate 2d4 + level HD of creatures (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Hypnotism: Caster's gestures make 2d4 HD of creatures susceptible to a brief suggestion. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ice Axe: Creates an axe of ice that deals 2d12 + 1/2 levels cold damage as a touch attack.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ice Dagger: Creates a dagger of ice that deals 1d4 cold damage and potentially deals splash damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ice Flowers: Chunks of ice and soil erupt, dealing 1d6 damage/level (half cold, half bludgeoning).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ice Knife: Ray of ice deals 2d8 cold damage and 2 Dexterity damage (Reflex half).
WotC, PHB, Ice Storm: 20-ft. radius cylinder deals 3d6 bludgeoning and 2d6 cold damage; area becomes difficult terrain. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Identify: Determines the properties of a magic item (Material: 100gp pearl). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Illusory Feast: Creates a 20-ft. radius of illusory food that fascinates and dazes creatures within (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Illusory Script: Caster writes a message that only specified readers can understand; others are confused for 1d6 hours. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Illusory Wall: Creates an invisible-from-one-side wall that appears solid to everyone else. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Immolation: Caster’s body explodes in fire, dealing 1d6/level damage to nearby enemies; caster is then resurrected at half hp (Fire/Good).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Implacable Pursuer: Caster gains a +10 bonus on Survival checks to track a specific creature and knows its direction constantly.
WotC, PHB, Implosion: Caster collapses the target into itself, killing it instantly (1 target/round, Fortitude negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Imprisonment: Touched creature is permanently buried in a small sphere deep underground (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Improve Fog: Increases the density of an existing fog, granting total concealment and hindering movement further.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Incendiary Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of white-hot embers deals 4d6 fire damage/round and obscures vision. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Incite: Target becomes enraged and must attack the nearest creature (Will negates; Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Inevitable Defeat: Touched target takes 3d6 nonlethal damage per round and is fatigued (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Infernal Threnody: Caster plays a song that deals 2 points of Strength and Dexterity damage per round to Good outsiders.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Infernal Transformation: Caster takes on a devilish form, gaining +4 Str/Con, see-in-darkness, and a bite attack.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Infernal Transformation, Lesser: As Infernal Transformation, but +2 bonuses and fewer resistances.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Inflict Critical Wounds: Touched target takes 4d8 + 1/level (max +20) damage (Will half). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Inflict Light Wounds: Touched target takes 1d8 + 1/level (max +5) damage (Will half). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Inflict Moderate Wounds: Touched target takes 2d8 + 1/level (max +10) damage (Will half). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Inflict Serious Wounds: Touched target takes 3d8 + 1/level (max +15) damage (Will half). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Inhibitor: Prevents a target from using a specific feat or special ability for the duration (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Inner Beauty: Subject gains a +4 sacred bonus to Charisma and Dexterity (Good).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Insanity: Subject is permanently affected by Confusion (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Insignia of Alarm: All creatures wearing a specific insignia or badge become aware of a mental alarm.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Insignia of Blessing: All creatures wearing a specific insignia gain a +1 morale bonus on attacks and saves against fear.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Insignia of Healing: All creatures wearing a specific insignia are cured of 1d8 + 1/level damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Insignia of Warding: All creatures wearing a specific insignia gain a +1 deflection bonus to AC and a +1 resistance bonus on saves.
WotC, PHB, Invisibility: Subject is invisible for 1 min./level; ends if the subject attacks. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Invisibility, Greater: As Invisibility, but does not end if the subject attacks. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Invisibility, Mass: As Invisibility, but affects all creatures in a 180-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Invisibility Purge: Neutralizes all invisibility effects within a radius around the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Invisibility Sphere: Creates a 10-ft. radius area that makes all allies within it invisible. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Invisibility to Animals: Animals cannot see or smell the subject (1 subject/level).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Invisibility to Undead: Undead cannot see or smell the subject (1 subject/level).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Iron Body: Caster’s body becomes living iron, gaining DR 15/adamantine and multiple immunities. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Iron Silence: Touched armor no longer applies its armor check penalty to Hide and Move Silently checks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ironskin: Subject gains a +4 natural armor bonus and DR 5/adamantine.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ironguard: Subject becomes immune to nonmagical metal weapons; they pass through the body harmlessly.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ironwood: Transforms normal wood into a material as hard and heavy as iron; usable by Druids. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Irresistible Dance: Touched target must dance wildly, losing its AC bonus and ability to take actions (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Jagged Tooth: Touched natural weapon’s critical threat range is doubled (Keen for natural weapons).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Janus Vision: Caster can see in all directions simultaneously, gaining a +4 bonus on Spot and Search and immunity to flanking.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Jaws of the Wolf: Caster creates 1d4 Small wooden wolves that transform into actual wolves to fight.
WotC, PHB, Jump: Subject gains a +10 to +30 enhancement bonus on Jump checks (based on level). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Just Cause: Caster gains a +1 morale bonus on attacks and saves for 1 round/level (Lawful).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Justice of the Wyrm: Caster grows scales and claws, gaining +4 natural armor and two claw attacks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Karma Blessing: Caster gains a +4 sacred bonus on their next caster level check.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Keen Edge: Doubles the critical threat range of a piercing or slashing weapon. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Keen Senses: Subject gains low-light vision and a +2 competence bonus on Listen and Spot checks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Kelgore’s Fire Bolt: Deals 1d6 damage/level (max 5d6); if SR is not overcome, it still deals 1d6 damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Kelgore’s Grave Mist: Creates a 20-ft. radius of cold mist dealing 1d6 damage/round and fatiguing creatures.
WotC, PHB, Knock: Magically opens stuck, barred, locked, or held doors or secret doors. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Know Direction: Caster instantly discerns the direction of north. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Know Greatest Enemy: Caster determines which creature in a 60-ft. cone has the highest Challenge Rating.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Know Opponent: Caster learns one specific weakness or resistance of a single target (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Know Vulnerabilities: Caster learns all energy vulnerabilities and resistances of the target (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Komodo Strike: Touched natural weapon deals 1d4 poison damage (Constitution) on a successful hit.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Kutriel’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Evil subtype that must be obeyed (Enchantment; Evil).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Languor: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Strength penalty and Slows the target (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Lantern Light: Caster fires rays of light (1 ray/2 levels) dealing 1d6 damage to evil creatures.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Last Breath: Caster restores life to a creature that died within the last round; target returns at 0 hp (no level loss).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Last Judgment: Evil creature is struck by divine power; if it has 100 hp or less, it is sent to a lower plane (die).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Launch Bolt: Caster magically launches a crossbow bolt as if from a light crossbow (uses caster's BAB).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Launch Item: Caster magically flings a fine item (vials, rocks) up to 100 ft. + 10 ft./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Leomund’s Secret Chest: Hides a chest on the Ethereal Plane, retrievable at will. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Leomund’s Secure Shelter: Creates a sturdy, 20-ft. square stone cottage with furnishings and a food supply. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Leomund’s Tiny Hut: Creates an immobile, opaque 10-ft. sphere of force that provides shelter and concealment.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Lesser...: Note: Prefix; see specific spell names (e.g., Lesser Restoration).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Levitate: Subject moves up or down as the caster directs (up to 20 ft./round). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Life's Grace: Subject is immune to death effects, energy drain, and takes no damage from positive/negative energy.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Light: Object shines like a torch (20-ft. radius) for 10 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Light of Lunia: Caster glows with silver light; can discharge to fire two bolts of 1d6 damage (2d6 vs undead).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Light of Mercuria: Caster glows with golden light; can discharge to fire two bolts of 2d6 damage (4d6 vs undead).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Light of Venya: Caster glows with white light; can discharge to fire two bolts that heal 1d6+1 or deal 3d6 to undead.
WotC, PHB, Lightning Bolt: 120-ft. line of electricity deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6); Reflex half. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Lightning Ring: Caster is wreathed in electricity; fires two bolts of 5d6 electricity damage per round (Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Limited Wish: Alters reality to duplicate any wizard spell of 6th level or lower (costs 300 XP). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mage Armor: Gives subject +4 armor bonus to AC; force effect, works against incorporeal touches. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mage Armor, Greater: As Mage Armor, but provides a +6 armor bonus.
WotC, PHB, Mage Hand: Caster can telekinetically move a non-magical object up to 5 lbs. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: 10-ft. radius ward grants +2 AC, +2 saves, and prevents possession by specified alignment. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Magic Conclave: Caster and allies within 30 ft. can share spell slots and metamagic effects.
WotC, PHB, Magic Fang: One natural weapon of a touched creature gets +1 enhancement bonus on attack/damage. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Fang, Greater: As Magic Fang, but bonus is +1 per four levels (max +5). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Jar: Caster’s soul enters a gem, then can attempt to possess nearby creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Missile: Fires 1 missile + 1 per two levels (max 5); each deals 1d4+1 force damage; strikes unerringly. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Mouth: Object speaks a programmed message (up to 25 words) when a specific trigger occurs. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Vestment: Armor or shield gains +1 enhancement bonus per four levels (max +5). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 enhancement bonus. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magic Weapon, Greater: As Magic Weapon, but bonus is +1 per four levels (max +5). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Magnifying Chime: Creates a tone that shatters glass and crystalline creatures; deals 1d6 sonic damage/level.
WotC, PHB, Major Creation: As Minor Creation, but can create mineral or metal objects (1 cu. ft./level). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Major Image: Creates a visual, auditory, olfactory, and thermal illusion (requires concentration + 3 rounds). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Make Whole: Repairs an object (including magic items) or a construct of 1d6 hp/level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Mantle of the Icy Soul: Subject permanently gains the Cold subtype (requires 2,000 XP).
WotC, PHB, Maze: Traps subject in an extradimensional labyrinth; Intelligence check to escape. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Melf’s Acid Arrow: Ranged touch attack deals 2d4 acid damage for 1 round + 1 round per three levels. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mending: Repairs minor damage to a single object. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Message: Caster can whisper messages to subjects within range; they can reply in whispers. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Meteor Swarm: Four 2-ft. spheres deal 6d6 fire/bludgeoning damage each in a 40-ft. radius. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mind Blank: Subject is immune to all mind-affecting effects and divinations/scrying. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mind Fog: 20-ft. radius fog causes creatures to take a –10 penalty on Wisdom checks and Will saves. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Minor Creation: Caster creates one nonmagical, unattended object of vegetable matter (cloth, wood, etc.). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Minor Image: Creates a static visual illusion with some sound. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Miraculous Mirror: Caster’s shield or blade reflects gaze attacks and rays back at the attacker (Abjuration).
WotC, PHB, Mirror Image: Creates 1d4 + 1/3 levels (max 8) illusory duplicates that mimic the caster's actions to misdirect attacks. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Mirror Image, Greater: As Mirror Image, but one image is restored each round if destroyed.
WotC, PHB, Misdirection: Fools divination spells used on a creature or object, making them return info for a nearby "decoy." PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mislead: Caster becomes invisible and simultaneously creates an illusory double that moves as directed. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mnemonic Enhancer: Caster prepares up to 3 additional levels of spells or "re-prepares" a cast spell of 3rd level or lower. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Modify Memory: Caster changes 5 minutes of the subject's memory (Bard only). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Moment of Prescience: Caster gains a +1/level insight bonus (max +25) on a single attack roll, check, or save. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Monks’s Hardened Fist: Touched target’s unarmed strike deals damage as if they were two sizes larger.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Monster Thrall: Permanently dominates one creature (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Mount: Summons a light horse or pony to serve as a mount for 2 hours/level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Mount, Greater: Summons a hippogriff or griffon (with saddle) to serve as a mount.
WotC, PHB, Move Earth: Caster moves dirt, sand, or clay at a rate of one 750-sq.-ft. area every 10 minutes. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Mud to Rock: Transforms a volume of mud into soft stone. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Murderous Mist: 20-ft. radius cloud of scalding steam deals 2d6 fire damage and blinds (Fortitude half/negates).
WotC, PHB, Muro’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Good subtype that must be obeyed (Enchantment; Good).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nature’s Favor: Animal gains a +1 luck bonus on attack and damage rolls per 3 levels (max +5).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nature’s Rampage: Plants and earth in a massive area attack non-druids/non-rangers.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nature’s Watch: Caster is alerted if any natural creature in the area is harmed or killed.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nauseating Breath: 30-ft. cone of gas causes subjects to become nauseated for 1d6 rounds (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Necrotic Cyst: Caster implants a cyst in a target, making them vulnerable to "Necrotic" sub-type spells.
WotC, PHB, Neutralize Poison: Detoxifies a creature or object, curing current poison and granting immunity for 10 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Night’s Caress: Touched target takes 1d6/level damage (max 15d6) and 1d6-2 Constitution damage.
WotC, PHB, Nightmare: Sends a hideous vision to a sleeping subject, dealing 1d10 damage and leaving them fatigued. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Night's Mantel: Caster is wreathed in shadow, gaining a +4 bonus to Hide and concealment in dim light.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nightshield: Caster gains a +1 to +3 resistance bonus on saves and is immune to Magic Missile.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nightstalker’s Transformation: Caster gains +4 Dex, +3 luck bonus to AC, evasion, and 3d6 sneak attack damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nimbus of Light: Caster glows with silver light; can discharge for 1d8 + 1/level damage (max +20) against undead/evil.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Node Door: Caster teleports between two "earth nodes" within range (Teleportation).
WotC, PHB, Nondetection: Subject is hidden from all divination spells (e.g., Scrying, Clairvoyance); requires caster level check. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nunn’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Neutral subtype that must be obeyed (Enchantment; Neutral).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nybor’s Mild Admonishment: Target is dazed for 1 round and distracted (–2 penalty on rolls) for 1 round/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nybor’s Stern Reproof: Target must save or die; if it saves, it is dazed and sickened.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Nybor’s Wrathful Reprimand: Target must save or die; if it saves, it is stunned for 1d4 rounds.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Obscuring Mist: Creates a 20-ft. radius of thick mist, granting concealment (20%) or total concealment (50%). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Obscuring Snow: Creates a 30-ft. radius of swirling snow that functions as Obscuring Mist.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Octopus’s Mask: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Hide checks and can change color to match surroundings.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Omen of Peril: Caster learns if the next hour will bring "safety," "caution," or "danger" (Divination).
WotC, Spell Compendium, One with the Land: Caster gains a +2 link bonus to Handle Animal, Hide, Move Silently, Search, and Spot in natural settings.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Acid: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 15d6); no save/no SR.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Acid, Lesser: As Orb of Acid, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Cold: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially dazes.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Cold, Lesser: As Orb of Cold, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Electricity: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 electricity damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially entangles.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Electricity, Lesser: As Orb of Electricity, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Fire: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially dazes.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Fire, Lesser: As Orb of Fire, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Force: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 force damage/level (max 10d6); no save/no SR.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Sound: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 sonic damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially deafens.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orb of Sound, Lesser: As Orb of Sound, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, PHB, Order’s Wrath: 20-ft. radius burst of lawful energy deals 1d8 damage/2 levels (max 5d8) and dazes chaotic creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Organic Disruption: Ray deals 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6) to creatures of the Plant or Ooze type.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Orient Self: Caster instantly knows their direction and location relative to a known landmark.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Otto’s Irresistible Dance: Note: Standardized under "I" as Irresistible Dance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Otto’s Lucrative Luminescence: Objects in a 20-ft. radius glow; grants a +10 bonus on Spot and Search to find them.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Overwhelm: Touched target takes nonlethal damage equal to its current hit points (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Owl’s Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wisdom for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Owl’s Wisdom, Mass: As Owl’s Wisdom, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Panacea: Instantly cures nearly all negative conditions (blind, deaf, sickened, etc.) and heals 1d8 + 1/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Paralyzing Touch: Caster’s touch paralyzes a creature for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PHB, Passwall: Creates a 5-ft. by 8-ft. by 10-ft. passage through wooden, plaster, or stone walls. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Pass without Trace: Subject leaves no trail or scent behind; cannot be tracked by nonmagical means. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Path of Frost: Creates a 5-ft. wide path of ice that deals 1d6 cold damage and causes creatures to slip.
WotC, PHB, Pa’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Air subtype that must be obeyed (Enchantment; Air).
WotC, PHB, Pervasive Vision: Caster gains a +10 insight bonus on Search and Spot and can see through 1 ft. of solid material.
WotC, PHB, Phantasmal Killer: Creates an illusory image of the target’s greatest fear; target must save or die from fright. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Phantom Battle: Creates an illusory melee in a 20-ft. radius; creatures within are considered flanked and take attacks of opportunity.
WotC, PHB, Phantom Steed: Creates a quasi-real, horselike creature that can eventually fly and walk on water (lasts 1 hour/level). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Phantom Wolf: Summons a spectral wolf with 12 HD that can run on air and attack for 2d6+7 damage.
WotC, PHB, Phase Door: Creates an invisible, ethereal passage through a wall that only the caster can use. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Pillars of Sand: Creates one 5-ft. pillar of sand per 2 levels that can lift objects or block paths.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Plague Carrier: Touched creature becomes a carrier for a disease, spreading it via contact but remaining unaffected.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Plague of Rats: Summons one rat swarm per level to attack a specified area.
WotC, PHB, Planar Ally: Caster trades payment for the service of an extraplanar entity (Lesser: 6 HD, Standard: 12 HD, Greater: 18 HD). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Planar Binding: Traps and compels an extraplanar creature into service (Lesser: 6 HD, Standard: 12 HD, Greater: 18 HD). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Planar Bubble: Creates a 10-ft. radius area around a creature that emulates the traits of its home plane.
WotC, PHB, Plane Shift: Teleports up to 8 subjects to another plane of existence (requires a specific tuning fork). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Plant Growth: Overgrows an area with plants, impeding movement or enriching agricultural yields. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Pocket Cave: Creates an extradimensional 20-ft. cube cave inside a small crevice or hole.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Poison: Touched target takes 1d10 Constitution damage, followed by another 1d10 after 1 minute (Fortitude negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Poison Thorns: Caster sprouts thorns that deal 1d4 damage + poison (1d2 Str) to grapplers.
WotC, PHB, Polymorph: Transforms a willing subject into another creature type (up to 15 HD) for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Polymorph Any Object: As Polymorph, but can affect objects and has a duration based on the similarity of the forms. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Polymorph Self: Note: Superseded by Polymorph in 3.5 nomenclature.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Portal Beacon: Caster identifies the destination and properties of all portals within 60 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Positive Energy Aura: Caster emits a 10-ft. aura that heals living creatures 1 hp/round and damages undead.
WotC, PHB, Power Word Blind: Blinds one creature with 200 hp or less (duration depends on current hp; No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Power Word Kill: Kills one creature with 100 hp or less instantly (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Power Word Maladroit: Target with 100 hp or less takes 2d4 Dexterity damage (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Power Word Nauseate: Target with 150 hp or less is nauseated for 1d4+1 rounds (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Power Word Pain: Target with 100 hp or less takes 1d6 damage/round for several rounds (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Power Word Petrify: Target with 100 hp or less is turned to stone (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Power Word Sicken: Target with 100 hp or less is sickened for 1d4+1 rounds (No Save).
WotC, PHB, Power Word Stun: Stuns one creature with 150 hp or less (duration depends on current hp; No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Power Word Weaken: Target with 100 hp or less takes 2d4 Strength damage (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Prayer: Allies gain a +1 luck bonus on most rolls; enemies take a –1 penalty. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Primal Form: Caster takes the form of a Medium elemental (Air, Earth, Fire, or Water).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Primal Speed: Caster gains a +10 ft. bonus to speed and a +5 bonus on Reflex saves for 1 hour/level.
WotC, PHB, Prismatic Ray: Caster fires a single ray that deals a random effect (fire, acid, electricity, poison, etc.) to one target.
WotC, PHB, Prismatic Sphere: Creates an immobile, multicolored sphere that provides total protection and deals various effects to anything touching it. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Prismatic Spray: 60-ft. cone of multicolored light strikes targets with random effects (damage, insanity, death, etc.). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Prismatic Wall: Creates a vertical, multicolored plane that functions like a Prismatic Sphere but as a wall. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Produce Flame: Caster creates a small flame in hand that can be used for light or thrown as a touch attack for 1d6 + 1/level damage. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Programmed Image: Creates an illusory scene with sound, smell, and thermal effects that triggers on a specific event. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Project Image: Caster creates an illusory double through which they can see, hear, and cast spells from a distance. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Protection from Arrows: Subject gains DR 10/magic (up to 100 total damage) against ranged weapons. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Subject gains +2 AC, +2 saves, and immunity to possession/mental control from specified alignment. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Protection from Energy: Subject gains immunity to 12 points of damage/level from a specific energy type. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Protection from Spells: Subject gains a +8 resistance bonus on saving throws against spells and spell-like abilities. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Proximal Mount: Caster summons their special mount or familiar from any distance to an adjacent square.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Puppeteer: Caster controls the subject's physical movements while the subject remains conscious (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Purify Food and Drink: Makes spoiled or poisonous food and water safe for consumption. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Pyrotechnics: Transforms a fire source into a blinding flash of light or a choking cloud of smoke. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Quill Blast: Caster’s body explodes with quills, dealing 1d6 damage/level (max 5d6) and penalizing targets.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Quillfire: Caster’s hand sprouts quills that can be used in melee or thrown for 1d8 + poison.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Radiant Shield: Subject is wreathed in light; deals 1d6+1/level electricity damage to melee attackers and grants resistance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Rage: Subjects gain +2 Strength/Constitution and a +1 morale bonus on Will saves, but –2 AC. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Raise Dead: Restores life to a deceased creature (dead up to 1 day/level); subject loses one level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ram’s Might: Touched creature’s hands/natural weapons deal damage as if one size larger; +2 on bull rush.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Clumsiness: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Dexterity penalty (min 1) for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Deanimation: Ray deals 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6) to a single construct.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Dizziness: Ray makes target only able to take a single move or standard action each round (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Ray of Enfeeblement: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Strength penalty (max 1d6+5) for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Exhaustion: Ray makes the target exhausted; if it saves, it is merely fatigued. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Flame: Ray deals 1d6 fire damage per level (max 15d6) and potentially ignites the target.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Ice: Ray deals 1d6 cold damage per level (max 15d6) and potentially freezes the target in place.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Sickness: Ray causes the target to become sickened for 1 round per level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Stupidity: Ray deals 1d4+1 Intelligence damage to the target (min Intelligence 1).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Weakness: Ray deals a -2 penalty to attack rolls and 1d6 points of Strength damage.
WotC, PHB, Read Magic: Caster can read magical inscriptions (scrolls, spellbooks, glyphs) that would otherwise be unintelligible. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reciprocal Gyre: Caster deals 1d12 damage per spell level of active magical effects currently on the target (max 25d12).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reduce Person: Subject’s size decreases by one category; gains +2 Dexterity, –2 Strength, and +1 to AC/attacks. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reduce Person, Greater: As Reduce Person, but lasts 1 hour per level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reduce Person, Mass: As Reduce Person, but affects one subject per level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, PHB, Regenerate: Subject’s severed body members grow back, and they heal 4d8 damage + 1 per level (max +35). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reincarnate: Brings a dead creature back to life in a new, randomly determined body. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Relentless Inspections: Subject is compelled to meticulously search an area, becoming distracted and taking penalties to AC.
WotC, PHB, Remove Blindness/Deafness: Cures a subject of magical or mundane blindness or deafness. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Curse: Frees a person or object from a curse. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Disease: Cures all diseases the subject is currently suffering from. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Fear: Grants a +4 morale bonus against fear to subjects, or suppresses existing fear effects. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Paralysis: Frees one or more creatures from paralyzing effects or the Hold Person spell. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Repel Vermin: Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay at least 10 ft. away from the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Repel Wood: Waves of energy push wooden objects (including hafts of weapons) away from the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Repulsion: Creatures cannot approach the caster within a specific radius (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Resilience: Caster gains damage reduction 10/magic for 1 round (Immediate Action).
WotC, PHB, Resist Energy: Subject gains energy resistance 10, 20, or 30 against a specific energy type. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Resistance: Subject gains a +1 resistance bonus on all saving throws. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Exhaustion: Ray makes the target exhausted; if it saves, it is merely fatigued. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Flame: Ray deals 1d6 fire damage per level (max 15d6) and potentially ignites the target.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Ice: Ray deals 1d6 cold damage per level (max 15d6) and potentially freezes the target in place.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Sickness: Ray causes the target to become sickened for 1 round per level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Stupidity: Ray deals 1d4+1 Intelligence damage to the target (min Intelligence 1).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ray of Weakness: Ray deals a -2 penalty to attack rolls and 1d6 points of Strength damage.
WotC, PHB, Read Magic: Caster can read magical inscriptions (scrolls, spellbooks, glyphs) that would otherwise be unintelligible. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reciprocal Gyre: Caster deals 1d12 damage per spell level of active magical effects currently on the target (max 25d12).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reduce Person: Subject’s size decreases by one category; gains +2 Dexterity, –2 Strength, and +1 to AC/attacks. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reduce Person, Greater: As Reduce Person, but lasts 1 hour per level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reduce Person, Mass: As Reduce Person, but affects one subject per level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, PHB, Regenerate: Subject’s severed body members grow back, and they heal 4d8 damage + 1 per level (max +35). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Reincarnate: Brings a dead creature back to life in a new, randomly determined body. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Relentless Inspections: Subject is compelled to meticulously search an area, becoming distracted and taking penalties to AC.
WotC, PHB, Remove Blindness/Deafness: Cures a subject of magical or mundane blindness or deafness. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Curse: Frees a person or object from a curse. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Disease: Cures all diseases the subject is currently suffering from. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Fear: Grants a +4 morale bonus against fear to subjects, or suppresses existing fear effects. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Remove Paralysis: Frees one or more creatures from paralyzing effects or the Hold Person spell. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Repel Vermin: Insects, spiders, and other vermin stay at least 10 ft. away from the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Repel Wood: Waves of energy push wooden objects (including hafts of weapons) away from the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Repulsion: Creatures cannot approach the caster within a specific radius (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Resilience: Caster gains damage reduction 10/magic for 1 round (Immediate Action).
WotC, PHB, Resist Energy: Subject gains energy resistance 10, 20, or 30 against a specific energy type. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Resistance: Subject gains a +1 resistance bonus on all saving throws. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sending: Caster delivers a message of 25 words or less to a subject on any plane; subject can reply immediately. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sensorineural Transfer: Caster and a willing subject share all sensory input (sight, hearing, etc.) across any distance.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sepia Snake Sigil: A written rune transforms into a force-snake that immobilizes the reader in a shimmering field. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sequester: Makes an object or willing creature invisible and undetectable by divination; puts living creatures into suspended animation. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shadow Binding: 20-ft. radius burst of shadows entangles and dazes creatures (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Shadow Conjuration: Mimics a conjuration (summoning or creation) spell of 3rd level or lower; 20% real if save succeeds. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shadow Conjuration, Greater: Mimics conjuration spells of 6th level or lower; 60% real if save succeeds. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shadow Evocation: Mimics an evocation spell of 4th level or lower; 20% real if save succeeds. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shadow Evocation, Greater: Mimics evocation spells of 7th level or lower; 60% real if save succeeds. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shadow Form: Caster becomes a living shadow, gaining +10 on Hide/Move Silently, concealment, and ability to pass through cracks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shadow Landscape: Transforms a large natural area into a shadowy version; hinders movement and empowers shadow spells.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shadow Mask: Caster’s face is obscured by shadows, granting a +4 bonus on saves against light/gaze attacks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shadow Phase: Subject becomes partially incorporeal, gaining a 50% miss chance against nonmagical attacks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shadow Spray: 5-ft. radius burst of shadows deals 2 points of Strength damage and dazes (Will negates).
WotC, PHB, Shadow Walk: Caster and allies step into the Edge of Shadow, traveling rapidly (50 miles/hour) across the Material Plane. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shadow Weapon: Creates a quasi-real melee weapon that deals 1d6 damage + 1/level (max +10) as a touch attack.
WotC, PHB, Shambler: Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to guard an area or attack (lasts 7 days). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shapechange: Subject takes the form of any creature up to 25 HD, gaining all extraordinary and supernatural abilities. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shards: Caster fires a 15-ft. cone of crystal shards dealing 1d6 damage/level (max 5d6).
WotC, PHB, Shatter: 5-ft. radius burst or targeted vibration destroys nonmagical objects or damages crystalline creatures (1d6/level). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shield: Invisible disk of force provides a +4 shield bonus to AC and negates Magic Missile. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shield of Faith: Subject gains a +2 deflection bonus to AC (improves with level, max +5). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shield of Law: Allies within 20 ft. gain +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against chaotic spells. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shield Other: Caster takes half the damage dealt to a touched ally; also grants ally +1 AC/Saves. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shifting Paths: Changes the appearance of paths and terrain in a large area to misdirect travelers (Will disbelief).
WotC, PHB, Shillelagh: Touched nonmagical club or quarterstaff deals damage as if two sizes larger and gains a +1 enhancement bonus. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shivering Touch: Touched target takes 3d6 Dexterity damage (No Save).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shivering Touch, Lesser: Touched target takes 1d6 Dexterity damage (No Save).
WotC, PHB, Shocking Grasp: Caster’s touch deals 1d6 electricity damage/level (max 5d6); +3 bonus to hit targets in metal armor. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shout: 30-ft. cone of sound deals 5d6 sonic damage and deafens for 2d6 rounds (Fortitude negates deafness/half damage). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Shout, Greater: 60-ft. cone deals 1d6 sonic damage/level (max 20d6), stuns for 1 round, and deafens for 4d6 rounds. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Shrink Item: Touched nonmagical object shrinks to 1/16th size and 1/4000th weight; can be tossed and enlarged. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Signs of Influence: Caster gains a +4 bonus on Charisma-based checks against subjects of lower status.
WotC, PHB, Silence: Creates an immobile 20-ft. radius sphere of total silence; prevents sonic damage and verbal spellcasting. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Silent Image: Creates a purely visual illusion (no sound, smell, or heat) within range. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Silverbeard: Caster’s beard turns to silver, granting a +2 sacred bonus to AC.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Silver Claws: Touched creature’s natural weapons are treated as silver for bypassing damage reduction.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Simbul’s Spell Matrix: Caster prepares up to four spells (3rd level or lower) to be triggered later as swift actions.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Simbul’s Spell Sequencer: As Spell Matrix, but stores up to two spells of 4th level or lower.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Simbul’s Spell Trigger: As Spell Matrix, but stores one spell of up to 7th level.
WotC, PHB, Simulacrum: Creates a partially real illusory double of a creature with half the original's HD and abilities. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sirine’s Grace: Caster gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and Dexterity, a swim speed, and water breathing.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Slapping Hand: Note: Standardized under "B" as Bigby’s Slapping Hand.
WotC, PHB, Slay Living: Touched subject takes 12d6 + 1/level damage; if reduced to 0 hp, they die instantly (Fortitude partial). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sleep: 10-ft. radius burst puts 4 HD of creatures into a comatose slumber for 1 min./level (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sleet Storm: 40-ft. radius area is filled with driving sleet; blocks vision and makes ground slippery (Balance check required). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Slow: Up to one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius can take only one move or standard action/round; –1 AC/Reflex/Attacks. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Snake’s Swiftness: One ally immediately makes a single melee or ranged attack (Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Snake’s Swiftness, Mass: Allies in a 20-ft. radius each immediately make a single melee or ranged attack.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sniper’s Eye: Caster gains a +10 bonus on Spot, darkvision, and ability to make sneak attacks at up to 60 ft.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Snowball Swarm: A flurry of snowballs deals 2d6 cold damage in a 10-ft. radius (max 5d6).
WotC, PHB, Soften Earth and Stone: Turns wet earth to thick mud, dry earth to loose sand, or stone to soft clay. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Solid Fog: 20-ft. radius fog obscures all sight and reduces movement speed to 5 ft. per round. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sonic Blast: 60-ft. cone of sound deals 1d4 sonic damage/level (max 5d4) and potentially deafens.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sonic Might: Caster’s next sonic spell deals +1d6 damage and potentially stuns the target (Swift Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sonic Shield: Caster is wreathed in sound; grants +4 deflection bonus and deals 1d8 sonic damage to melee attackers.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sonic Weapon: Touched weapon deals +1d6 sonic damage on each successful hit.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Soul Bind: Traps the soul of a newly dead creature in a gem to prevent resurrection. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Sound Burst: 10-ft. radius burst deals 1d8 sonic damage and potentially stuns (Fortitude negates stun). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Speak with Animals: Caster can comprehend and communicate with animals for 1 min./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Speak with Dead: Caster asks a corpse up to one question per two levels; corpse is not compelled to speak truth. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Speak with Plants: Caster can communicate with normal plants and plant creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spectral Hand: Creates a ghostly hand that delivers touch-range spells for the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spell Immunity: Subject is immune to one specific spell of 4th level or lower per four levels. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spell Immunity, Greater: As Spell Immunity, but includes spells up to 8th level. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Spell Resistance: Subject gains Spell Resistance (SR) equal to 12 + caster level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spell Turning: Spells targeted at the caster are reflected back at the original caster (1d4+6 levels). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spellmantle: Caster is wreathed in light; absorbs up to 1d4+6 spell levels and converts them to healing.
WotC, PHB, Spider Climb: Subject can climb vertical surfaces and ceilings at half speed with hands free. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spider Curse: Touched target is transformed into a Drider or Medium spider (Fortitude negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spike Growth: Ground in a 20-ft. radius sprouts sharp thorns; movement through area deals 1d4 damage. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Spike Stones: Ground in a 20-ft. radius transforms into sharp stone spikes; deals 1d8 damage per 5 ft. moved. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spirit Jaws: Creates spectral jaws that grapple a target and deal 2d6 damage per round.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Spiritual Weapon: Creates a weapon of force that attacks a designated target (deals 1d8 + 1/3 levels). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Splinterbolt: Caster fires a splinter of wood that deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) and threatens a critical hit on 18-20.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stabilize: All creatures in a 40-ft. radius at –1 to –9 hp are instantly stabilized.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stand: Caster or touched subject stands up from prone as an immediate action without provoking attacks of opportunity.
WotC, PHB, Statue: Subject can become as hard as stone at will, gaining hardness 8 and immunity to many effects while transformed. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stay the Hand: Target must save or be unable to complete a melee or ranged attack against the caster (Immediate Action).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Steeldance: Creates two daggers of force that hover and attack adjacent foes for 1d4 + 1/level damage.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stinking Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of nauseating vapors; creatures within are nauseated (Fortitude negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stone Body: Caster’s body becomes living stone, gaining DR 10/adamantine and multiple immunities.
WotC, PHB, Stone Shape: Caster reshapes a volume of stone into any form they desire. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stone Spiders: Transforms 1 to 3 stones into Small, Medium, or Large monstrous spiders.
WotC, PHB, Stoneskin: Subject gains DR 10/adamantine (up to 10 points/level, max 150) (Material: 250gp diamond dust). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Stone tell: Caster can communicate with natural or worked stone, learning what has occurred in the area. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stone to Flesh: Restores a petrified creature to its normal state. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Storm of Vengeance: Creates a massive storm cloud that deals acid, electricity, and bludgeoning damage over several rounds. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Storm Tower: Creates a tower of swirling wind that negates ranged attacks and protects against electricity.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Strategic Charge: Subject gains the benefits of the Mobility feat and a +2 bonus on attack rolls when charging.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Strength of Mind: Subject gains immunity to all mind-affecting spells and effects for 1 round/level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Stretch Weapon: Increases the reach of a melee weapon by 5 ft. for a single attack (Swift Action).
WotC, PHB, Suggestion: Caster influences a creature to perform a specific course of action (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Suggestion, Mass: As Suggestion, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster I: Summons one creature from the Summon Monster I list to fight for the caster.
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster II: Summons one 2nd-level creature or 1d3 1st-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster III: Summons one 3rd-level creature or 1d3 2nd-level/1d4+1 1st-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster IV: Summons one 4th-level creature or multiple lower-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster V: Summons one 5th-level creature or multiple lower-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster VI: Summons one 6th-level creature or multiple lower-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster VII: Summons one 7th-level creature or multiple lower-level creatures to fight for the caster. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster VIII: Summons one 8th-level creature or multiple lower-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Monster IX: Summons one 9th-level creature or multiple lower-level creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Summon Nature's Ally I-IX: Note: Grouped for brevity; Summons animals or elementals from the Druid Summoning Lists.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Summon Undead I-V: Note: Grouped; Summons skeletons, zombies, or ghouls to serve the caster for 1 round/level.
WotC, PHB, Sunbeam: Caster beams intensely bright light; deals 4d6 damage and blinds (1d6/level vs Undead). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sunburst: 80-ft. radius burst deals 6d6 damage and permanently blinds (1d6/level vs Undead; kills light-vulnerable). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Surefoot: Subject gains a +10 enhancement bonus on Balance, Climb, Jump, and Tumble checks.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Surelife: Caster is protected from one specific environmental condition (e.g., lava, vacuum, pressure) for 1 min./level.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Swift...: Note: Prefix for Swift action variants (e.g., Swift Expeditious Retreat).
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Death: A triggerable rune that kills all creatures with 60 hp or less in a 60-ft. radius. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Fear: A rune that causes creatures to become panicked (Will negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Insanity: A rune that permanently affects creatures with Insanity. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Pain: A rune that causes creatures to take a –4 penalty on attacks and checks due to wracking pain. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Persuasion: A rune that charms creatures into regarding the caster as a trusted friend. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Sleep: A rune that puts creatures of 10 HD or less into a catatonic slumber. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Stunning: A rune that stuns creatures for 1d6 rounds. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Symbol of Weakness: A rune that deals 3d6 Strength damage to creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sympathetic Vibration: Caster creates a vibration in a structure that deals 2d10 damage per round. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Sympathy: Objects or locations attract a specific type of intelligent creature. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Tactical Precision: Allies within 20 ft. gain a +2 insight bonus on attack rolls when flanking.
WotC, PHB, Tasha's Hideous Laughter: Note: Standardized under "H" as Hideous Laughter.
WotC, PHB, Telekinesis: Moves objects or creatures (up to 25 lbs./level), hurls items, or performs combat maneuvers at range. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Telepathic Bond: Caster and allies share a mental link, allowing telepathic communication. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Teleport: Instantly transports the caster and up to one person/3 levels to a known destination. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Teleportation Circle: Inscribes a 5-ft. radius circle that teleports any creature stepping into it to a designated spot. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Teleport, Greater: As Teleport, but with no range limit and no chance of arriving off-target. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Teleport Object: As Teleport, but affects a single unattended object of up to 50 lbs./level. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Temporal Stasis: Touched subject is placed into a state of suspended animation; time ceases to flow for them (No Save). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Tensers Transformation: Note: Standardized under "T" as Transformation.
WotC, PHB, Time Stop: Caster acts freely for 1d4+1 rounds while the rest of the world is frozen in time. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Tongue of Angels: Subject gains a +4 sacred bonus on Diplomacy checks and can speak with any Good creature.
WotC, PHB, Tongues: Subject can speak and understand the languages of any intelligent creature. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Touch of Fatigue: Touched target becomes fatigued for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Touch of Idiocy: Touched target takes 1d6 penalty to Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma (min 1). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Transformation: Caster gains +4 enhancement bonus to Str, Dex, and Con; BAB becomes equal to level; loses spellcasting. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Transmute Mud to Rock: Transforms a volume of mud into soft stone. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Transmute Rock to Mud: Transforms a volume of stone into soft mud; creatures in mud are slowed or trapped. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Transport via Plants: Caster and allies step into one plant and exit from another of the same species anywhere on the plane. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Trapsmith: Note: Usually refers to the prestige class, but in some contexts, a spell for identifying traps (see Find Traps).
WotC, PHB, Tree Shape: Caster transforms into a normal tree or shrub, retaining their own hit points and senses. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Tree Stride: Caster can step into one tree and move to another of the same type within several hundred feet. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, True Resurrection: Restores life to a creature (dead up to 10 years/level) with full hit points and no level loss. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, True Seeing: Subject sees all things as they truly are (sees through illusions, invisibility, and secret doors). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, True Strike: Caster's next attack roll gains a +20 insight bonus and ignores concealment. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Undead Bane Weapon: Touched weapon deals +2d6 damage against undead and gains +2 enhancement.
WotC, PHB, Unholy Aura: Allies within 20 ft. gain +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against good spells. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Unholy Blight: 20-ft. radius burst of unholy energy deals 1d8 damage/2 levels (max 5d8) and sickens good creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Unseen Servant: Creates an invisible, mindless force that performs simple tasks (lifting, cleaning, fetching). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Vampiric Touch: Caster's touch deals 1d6 damage/2 levels (max 10d6); caster gains equal temporary hit points. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Veil: Changes appearance of any number of creatures in a 30-ft. radius, including scent and touch. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Ventriloquism: Caster makes their voice (or any sound) seem to come from a different place. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Virtuous Armor: Touched subject gains a +2 sacred bonus to AC for 1 min./level.
WotC, PHB, Vision: Caster receives a vision regarding a specific person, place, or object; functions as Legend Lore. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wail of the Banshee: Caster’s scream kills one creature per level within a 40-ft. radius (Fortitude negates). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wall of Fire: Creates a shimmering curtain of fire dealing 2d4 fire damage to adjacent creatures and 2d6+1/level to those passing through. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wall of Force: Creates an invisible, immobile, nearly indestructible flat plane of force. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wall of Ice: Creates a 1-inch thick/level wall of ice that blocks movement and deals cold damage if broken. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wall of Iron: Creates a vertical iron wall (30 hp per inch of thickness) that can be tipped to crush foes. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wall of Stone: Creates a wall of rock that can be shaped to blend into existing stone (lasts permanently). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wall of Thorns: Creates a barrier of tough, sharp thorns; creatures moving through take 25 minus AC damage. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Warp Wood: Bends and twists wooden objects, potentially ruining bows or doors (1 small object/level). PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater freely for 2 hours/level. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Water Walk: Subjects can walk on any liquid (water, mud, snow, lava) as if it were solid ground. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Wave of Grief: 30-ft. cone causes targets to take a –3 penalty on attack rolls, saves, and checks (Will negates).
WotC, Spell Compendium, Weapon of Energy: Touched weapon deals +1d6 acid, cold, electricity, or fire damage (caster’s choice).
WotC, PHB, Web: Creates a 20-ft. radius of sticky silk that entangles creatures; requires Strength or Escape Artist checks to move. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Weird: Note: Standardized under "P" as Phantasmal Killer, Greater; kills multiple targets via fear.
WotC, Spell Compendium, Whirlwind: Creates a powerful cyclone that deals 3d6 damage and can pick up/trap creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Whispering Wind: Sends a message of 25 words or less to a specific location within 1 mile/level. PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Wind Wall: Creates an invisible curtain of wind that blocks arrows, gases, and small flying creatures. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Wish: The ultimate spell; can duplicate any other spell, remove injuries, or alter reality (Material: 5,000 XP). PHB/SRD
WotC, Spell Compendium, Wood Shape: Reshapes wooden objects into any form the caster desires. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Word of Chaos: Chaotic word kills, paralyzes, stuns, or deafens non-chaotic creatures based on HD. PHB/SRD
WotC, PHB, Zone of Truth: Prevents creatures within a 20-ft. radius from speaking deliberate lies (Will negates). PHB/SRD
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Acidic Curse: Touched object or creature deals 1d6 acid damage per round to anything touching it.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Air of Nobility: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and a +2 bonus on Diplomacy/Intimidate.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Animal Specter: Creates a ghostly image of an animal that can scout and return visual information.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Armor of Vengeance: Caster is wreathed in energy; deals 1d6 + 1/level damage to any melee attacker.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Aura of Doom: 20-ft. radius aura causes enemies to take a –2 penalty on attack rolls and saves (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Battle-Axe of the Titan: Creates a Large +2 greataxe made of force that attacks as directed by the caster.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Beacon of False Hope: Creates an illusory sanctuary; creatures entering must save or be dazed by false comfort.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Bellow of the Titan: Caster emits a roar dealing 1d8/level sonic damage and knocking targets prone (60-ft. cone).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Blade of the Banshee: Touched weapon deals +1d6 sonic damage and forces a save against fear on every hit.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Blood Siphon: Caster drains 1d4 Con from a target to heal themselves of 2 hit points per point drained.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Call the Blood: Caster forces the target's blood to boil, dealing 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) and fatiguing them.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Chardun’s Torment: Target is wracked with pain, taking a –4 penalty on all d20 rolls (Fortitude negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Chill of the Grave: 30-ft. cone of cold deals 1d6/level damage and potentially paralyzes (Fortitude half/negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Cloak of Etharis: Caster gains total concealment and DR 10/magic against ranged attacks.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Corrode: Targeted ray deals 2d6 acid damage + 1/level; bypasses 5 points of hardness on objects.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Crimson Binding: Chains of blood erupt from the ground, entangling and dealing 1d4 bleed damage per round.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Crushing Waves: Creates a wave of water dealing 1d6/level bludgeoning damage and pushing targets 20 ft. back.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Curse of the Flayed: Target's skin becomes hypersensitive; they take double damage from all physical attacks.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Dark Water: Transforms a body of water into a black, opaque liquid that sickens those submerged in it.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Death’s Shadow: Caster becomes invisible specifically to undead and constructs.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Divine Hammer: Creates a warhammer of divine energy that strikes for 1d8 + 1/level damage (Force).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Dragon’s Breath: Note: Scarred Lands variant; Caster gains a breath weapon (60-ft. cone) of a specific element for 1 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Earth’s Embrace: Target is pulled into the earth up to their waist; immobilized and –4 to AC.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Ebon Bindings: Caster creates manacles of shadow that prevent the target from using any teleportation or planar travel.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Echoes of the Past: Caster views the events that transpired in their current location up to 1 day/level ago.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Elemental Aegis: Caster gains resistance 20 against one element and deals 1d6 of that element to melee attackers.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Embrace of the Tide: Subject can breathe water and gains a +10 enhancement bonus to Swim checks.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Enslumber: Subject falls into a magical sleep that lasts for 1 day/level (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Entropic Blade: Touched weapon bypasses 5 points of any Damage Reduction (DR).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Essence of the Earth: Caster gains +4 natural armor and DR 5/adamantine for 1 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Eternal Slumber: Note: Scarred Lands variant of Temporal Stasis; subject is frozen in time.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Eye of the Storm: Creates a 20-ft. radius of calm air amidst any magical or mundane storm.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Face of the Beast: Target’s face becomes a monstrous visage, granting a +4 bonus to Intimidate and a 1d6 bite.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, False Life: Note: Name duplicate; S&S version allows a corpse to act as if alive for 1 hour/level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Fang of the Serpent: Touched weapon or natural weapon deals +1d6 acid damage and 1 point of Con damage.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Favor of the Gods: Subject gains a +2 luck bonus on all saving throws for 10 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Feast of Ashes: Target cannot gain nourishment from food or water, becoming exhausted within 24 hours.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Feral Senses: Caster gains the Scent ability and low-light vision for 1 hour/level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Fiery Wrath: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 fire damage/2 levels (max 10d6).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Flesh to Glass: Target is permanently transformed into fragile glass (Fortitude negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Flowing Bones: Subject’s skeletal structure becomes fluid; can pass through 1-inch openings and gains +10 to Escape Artist.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Font of Life: Caster creates a pool of water that heals 2d8+5 hp to anyone drinking from it (1 use/3 levels).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Frostbite: Touched target takes 1d6 cold damage/level and 1d4 Dexterity damage (Fortitude half).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Gaze of the Gorgon: Caster’s gaze turns one creature to stone for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Ghost Ship: Creates an illusory ship that can sail over any terrain (land or sea) for 1 hour/level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Gift of the Sea: Subject gains a +10 bonus on all Profession (Sailor) and Navigation checks.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Glacial Wall: Creates a wall of supernatural ice that deals 2d6 cold damage to those within 10 ft.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Grasp of the Grave: Skeletal hands erupt from the ground, grappling and dealing 1d6 negative energy damage/round.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Great Blast: 60-ft. cone deals 1d8/level force damage and stuns targets (Reflex half).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Grim Feast: Caster heals 1 hp for every hit point of damage dealt to a living creature with a melee attack.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Halo of Glory: Caster emits a 20-ft. radius of divine light that blinds evil creatures and heals 1d8 hp/round to good allies.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Hammer of the Gods: Note: Scarred Lands variant; creates a warhammer of force that ignores armor and deals 1d8 + 1/level damage.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Hand of Fate: Caster gains a +10 luck bonus on a single d20 roll (Casting Time: 1 immediate action).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Harmful Vapor: 20-ft. radius cloud of acidic gas deals 1d6 damage/round and potentially nauseates (Fortitude half).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Heart of the Mountain: Caster gains DR 10/adamantine and becomes immune to critical hits for 1 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Heart of the Sea: Subject can move through water without penalty and gains a +4 bonus on saves against aquatic hazards.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Heat Wave: 30-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire damage/level and causes targets to become fatigued (Fortitude half).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Hell's Gate: Note: True Ritual; creates a permanent portal to a lower plane (requires multiple casters and 5,000 XP).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Holy Fire: Touched weapon deals +1d6 fire damage and +2d6 against undead or evil outsiders.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Horrid Curse: Target’s appearance becomes monstrous; –6 penalty to Charisma and –4 to Diplomacy/Bluff (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Hunter’s Mark: Caster gains a +10 bonus on Survival checks to track one specific creature and +2 on attacks against it.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Ice Spear: Creates a spear of supernatural ice that deals 2d6 cold and 2d6 piercing damage as a ranged touch attack.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Icy Grip: Touched target takes 1d6 cold damage/level and is entangled in frost for 1 round/level (Fortitude half).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Illusory Army: Creates 1d4 + 1/level illusory soldiers that threaten areas and provide flanking bonuses.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Immolate: Target bursts into flames, taking 1d6 fire damage/level (max 10d6) and potentially igniting (Reflex half).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Inevitable Doom: Target must save or take 1d6 damage per round for the duration; damage cannot be healed while spell lasts.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Inferno: Creates a 20-ft. radius of intense heat dealing 6d6 fire damage/round (Concentration).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Iron Skin: Note: Scarred Lands version; grants +8 natural armor but –4 penalty to Dexterity.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Jade Shield: Protects subject from poison and disease; grants +4 resistance bonus against transformation effects.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Judgment: Caster determines the alignment and greatest sin of one target within 30 ft.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Kiss of the Succubus: Touched target is charmed and takes 1d4 Wisdom drain per round of contact (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Knight’s Honor: Subject gains a +4 morale bonus on saves against fear and charm effects.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Landstride: Note: Scarred Lands variant; Caster moves through any natural terrain (swamp, forest, desert) at full speed.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Lash of the Abyss: Creates a whip of shadow that deals 1d8 + 1/level damage and drains 1 point of Strength on a hit.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Life-Bond: Two subjects share hit points; whenever one takes damage, it is divided equally between both.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Light of the Soul: Caster sheds bright light (60-ft.) that deals 1d6 damage/round to undead and grants +2 on saves vs. fear.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Lightning Lash: Creates a 15-ft. whip of electricity dealing 1d6 + 1/level damage; can be used to trip with a +4 bonus.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Liquid Fire: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6/level fire damage; target continues to take 1d6 damage/round until extinguished.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Locate Water: Caster instantly knows the distance and direction to the largest body of water within 1 mile/level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Maddening Whispers: Target hears discordant voices, taking 1d4 Wisdom damage/round and becoming confused (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Maelstrom: Creates a 40-ft. radius whirlpool in water, drawing in ships and creatures (deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mantle of Egregious Might: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to all six ability scores for 1 round/level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mantle of Vengeance: Caster gains SR 20; any spell resisted by the SR is reflected back at the original caster.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mark of the Outcast: Target is branded with a visible rune; all Diplomacy/Bluff checks against the target gain a +10 bonus.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mask of Death: Subject’s appearance becomes skeletal; grants immunity to fear and +4 on Intimidate.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Master of the Wild: Caster gains the ability to command any animal of 4 HD or less (no save for animals).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Memory’s End: Target permanently loses all memory of a specific event or person (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mind’s Eye: Caster gains a +10 insight bonus on Search, Spot, and Sense Motive for 10 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mirror of Fate: Caster views one possible outcome of a future event (Divination).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mist of Mourning: 20-ft. radius fog deals 1d4 Wisdom damage/round to all non-undead (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Molten Metal: Touched metal object melts into liquid; deals 2d6 fire damage to anyone holding or wearing it.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Moonbeam: Note: Scarred Lands variant; 5-ft. radius beam of silver light deals 1d6/level damage to lycanthropes.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Morality’s End: Target’s alignment temporarily shifts to Neutral; loses all alignment-based class features (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Mystic Shield: Caster is immune to all spells of 3rd level or lower; cannot be bypassed by SR.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Nature’s Bounty: Touched plant provides enough food to nourish one person per level for 24 hours.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Nature’s Wrath: Plants in a 60-ft. radius attack enemies (deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage/round).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Necrotic Touch: Touched target takes 1d6 negative energy damage/level and 1d4 Strength damage.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Night’s Embrace: Caster becomes invisible while in any area of dim light or darkness.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Nightmare’s Grip: Target is paralyzed by terrifying hallucinations for 1 round/level (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Obsidian Bolt: Ray of volcanic glass deals 1d8/level damage; target takes 1d4 bleed damage for 3 rounds.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Ocean’s Call: Caster summons a CR-appropriate aquatic creature from the nearest body of water to serve.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Orb of Obsidian: Creates a 5-ft. sphere of volcanic glass that the caster can roll into enemies for 6d6 bludgeoning damage.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Pain: Target is wracked with agony, taking a –4 penalty on attacks, saves, and checks (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Paralyzing Blast: 30-ft. cone of energy paralyzes all living creatures for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Parting the Veil: Caster can see and speak with incorporeal undead or spirits for 1 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Petrifying Gaze: Note: Scarred Lands variant; Caster’s eyes turn targets to stone permanently (Fortitude negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Pillar of Fire: Creates a 10-ft. wide, 30-ft. high cylinder of flame dealing 1d6/level fire damage.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Plague of Flies: Summons a swarm of biting flies that deals 1d6 damage/round and sickens those within.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Power Word Fear: Target with 100 hp or less becomes panicked for 1d4 rounds (No Save).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Purify: Note: Scarred Lands variant; Removes all toxins and magical impurities from a 10-ft. cube of matter.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Quicksand: Transforms a 20-ft. radius of earth into deep quicksand; creatures must swim or sink.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Raise City: True Ritual; Magically repairs or raises sunken structures from the earth or sea (requires 10+ casters).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Ray of Rust: Ray destroys 1d6 lbs. of nonmagical iron or alloy per level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Reaper’s Scythe: Creates a blade of negative energy that deals 2d6 + 1/level damage and heals the caster.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Rite of Passage: Caster and allies step through a "shadow path," traveling 10 miles per level instantly.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Scales of the Serpent: Subject gains a +4 natural armor bonus and resistance to poison.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Sea’s Embrace: Note: Scarred Lands variant; Subject breathes water and takes no damage from crushing oceanic pressure.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Shadow’s Edge: Touched weapon gains the Ghost Touch property and deals +1d6 cold damage.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Shield of the Titan: Creates a 10-ft. wall of force that provides total cover against one direction.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Shockwave: Caster slams the ground, dealing 1d6/level bludgeoning damage and knocking all adjacent targets prone.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Smite: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 damage per level (max 10d6) to a target of opposing alignment.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Soul’s Window: Caster views the subject's true alignment and most recent strong emotion (Will negates).
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Spirit’s Journey: Caster’s soul leaves their body to scout as an invisible, flying sensor for 1 min./level.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Torrent: Creates a 60-ft. line of high-pressure water dealing 1d6/level damage and bull rushing targets.
S&S, Relics & Rituals, Voice of the Titan: Caster’s voice carries for miles and can daze all creatures within 60 ft. (Will negates).
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Arcane Battery: Caster stores a spell of 3rd level or lower in an object; it can be triggered as a free action later.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Arcane Feedback: Targeted dispel that deals 1d6 force damage per level of the spell successfully negated.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Armor of Force: Creates a shimmering field providing a +6 armor bonus to AC; stacks with non-force shields.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Aura of Penance: Enemies within 20 ft. take 1d6 nonlethal damage for every 10 points of damage they deal to the caster.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Barrier of Sound: Creates a 10-ft. wall that blocks all sound and deals 2d6 sonic damage to those passing through.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Blood Bolt: Caster takes 1d4 damage to fire a bolt dealing 1d6/level (max 10d6) to a single target (No SR).
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Bone Shield: Creates a floating shield of interlocking bones providing a +4 shield bonus and DR 5/bludgeoning.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Chromatic Blade: Creates a sword of shifting energy; caster chooses the energy type (Fire, Cold, Elec, Acid) each round.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Corrode Magic: Touched magic item must save or lose its magical properties for 1d4 rounds.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Divine Echo: Caster repeats the effect of the last divine spell cast by an ally within 30 ft.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Eldritch Form: Caster becomes a being of pure magical energy, gaining SR 25 and +2 to all save DCs.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Elemental Infusion: Touched weapon deals +1d6 damage of a specific element for 1 min./level.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Energy Loop: Creates a 20-ft. radius area where any energy damage dealt is increased by 50%.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Essence of the Magi: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Eye of the Deity: Caster views the world through their deity's eyes, gaining True Seeing and Detect Alignment.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Force Spike: A single spike of force deals 1d8 + 1/level damage and ignores all forms of DR.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Grasping Shadows: Shadows in a 20-ft. radius entangle and deal 1d4 Strength damage/round (Will negates).
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Hallowed Ground: Note: Mongoose variant; All Good-aligned creatures in the area gain a +2 morale bonus on attacks and AC.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Ice Shards: Fires 1 shard/2 levels (max 10); each shard deals 1d6 piercing and 1d6 cold damage.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Iron Grip: Caster's hand becomes incredibly strong, granting a +10 bonus on grapple checks and disarm attempts.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Kinetic Shield: Deflects the first 50 points of physical damage taken; reflects half back at the attacker.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Martyr’s Cry: Caster takes 20 damage to heal all allies within 30 ft. for 2d8 + 1/level.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Memory Leak: Subject forgets one prepared spell or loses one spell slot of the caster's choice (Will negates).
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Mystic Tether: Creates a link between two targets; whatever happens to one (damage/healing) happens to the other.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Nexus of Power: Creates a stationary point that grants all nearby casters a +2 bonus to Caster Level.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Abyssal Maw: Caster creates a portal to the Abyss that bites one target for 6d6 damage, possibly inflicting a disease.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Nullify: Targeted spell causes a magic item's enhancement bonus to be ignored for 1d4 rounds.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Divine, Pact of the Damned: Caster makes a bargain with a devil; gains a temporary boon (Str/Con boost) in exchange for 1 point of permanent Charisma drain.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Purging Flame: 20-ft. cone of holy fire deals 1d6/level damage and automatically Removes Disease from allies in the area.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Quintessential Weapon: Note: Renamed from an early source; Touched weapon gains a +5 enhancement bonus and the Brilliant Energy property.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Ray of Depletion: Ray deals 1d6 negative levels to constructs and elementals.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Rift: Note: Mongoose variant of Gate; creates a temporary tear in reality to another plane.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Divine, Sacred Anchor: Target evil creature cannot leave the current area (10-ft. radius) for 1 min./level (Will negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Sapphire Ray: Ray deals 1d4 damage/level (max 10d4) force damage and ignores 5 points of SR.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Searing Orb: Creates an orb of pure light that deals 1d8 damage/level (max 15d8) to undead on touch.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Shadow Bind: Touched target must save or be paralyzed by its own shadow for 1d4 rounds.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Shard Barrier: Creates a Wall of Force that deals 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6) to creatures passing through it.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Divine, Sign of the Martyr: Caster gains immunity to poison and disease, and deals 1d6 damage to evil creatures that strike them.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Soul Shackles: Prevents a corpse from being resurrected unless a difficult Will save is made by the caster attempting the Raise Dead.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Spell Breaker: Note: Mongoose variant of Dispel Magic, Greater; grants a +25 max bonus on CL checks.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Sphere of the Void: Creates a 20-ft. radius sphere that suppresses all sound, light, and magical energy within.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Divine, Storm of Retribution: Calls a localized storm dealing 2d6 cold and 2d6 electricity damage per round in a 40-ft. radius.
Mongoose, Quintessential Cleric, Sunblade: Creates a Scorching Ray that functions as a +2 Flaming Burst scimitar (ranged touch attack).
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Temporal Flux: Caster gains an extra standard action each round for 1 round/level (Swift action to cast).
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Thunderburst: Caster unleashes a 30-ft. cone dealing 1d6 sonic damage/level (max 15d6) and stuns for 1 round.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Divine, Truthspeaker’s Oath: Subject cannot speak a lie for 1 min./level; automatically bypasses Glibness and similar effects.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Umbral Weapon: Touched weapon gains the Unholy property and deals 1d4 Strength drain on a critical hit.
Mongoose, Quintessential Wizard, Vortex: Creates a Whirlwind that pulls creatures toward the center and suppresses all ranged attacks that pass through it.
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Divine, Wall of Condemnation: Creates a wall that deals 1d6 divine damage/level to evil creatures attempting to pass through (Will half).
Mongoose, Encyclopedia Arcane, Warp Reality: Note: Mongoose variant of Wish; same effect but requires a Charisma check (DC 25) or caster suffers 1d4 permanent Charisma drain.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Acidic Shield: Caster is surrounded by a film of acid; deals 1d6+1/level acid damage to any melee attacker.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Necromancy, Animate Skeletal Steed: Animates a horse skeleton to serve as a tireless mount for 1 hour/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Blowback: A sudden gust of wind pushes all creatures in a 60-ft. line back 20 ft. and deals 1d6/level bludgeoning damage.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Concussive Barrier: Creates a wall of sonic energy; projectiles passing through must save or be deflected; deals 2d6 sonic damage.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Corrosive Burst: 20-ft. radius explosion deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 10d6).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Corpsefire: Target corpse explodes in a 20-ft. radius, dealing 1d6 fire and 1d6 negative energy damage/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Defencelessness: Target's armor and natural armor bonuses are suppressed for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Disarmament: Target is forced to drop all held items; items are flung 10 ft. away (Reflex negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Dragonfly: Caster gains a fly speed of 60 ft. (Perfect) and a +4 dodge bonus to AC while moving.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Eldritch Enemy: Caster creates an illusory double of a specific foe that provides flanking and distracts the original.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Elemental Parasite: Caster attaches a mote of energy to a target; target takes 2d6 damage of that type every round they cast a spell.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Elemental Rupture: Target becomes a "bomb" of elemental energy, exploding for 10d6 damage upon death or after 1 min.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Engulfing Doom: Massive wave of negative energy kills all creatures with 50 hp or less in a 60-ft. cone.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Exploding Bones: Touched target's skeleton shatters; deals 1d6/level piercing damage to the target and those adjacent.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Fatal Attraction: Targets in a 20-ft. radius are magnetically pulled toward each other, becoming entangled and taking 2d6 damage.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Gelid Stream: 60-ft. line of freezing water deals 1d6 cold/1d6 bludgeoning damage/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Hungry Shadow: Target’s shadow becomes a literal predator, dealing 1d6 Strength damage each round (Will negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Lightning Vice: Two bolts of electricity arc between two targets, dealing 10d6 damage to each and linking them with a static chain.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Magma Pit: Transforms a 10-ft. square of floor into molten rock; deals 10d6 fire damage/round to those submerged.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Painblast: 30-ft. cone of psychic agony deals 1d8/level nonlethal damage and stuns for 1 round.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Razor Trap: Creates an invisible plane of force that deals 5d6 slashing damage to any creature walking through it.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Search Light: Beam of light outlines invisible creatures and grants +4 on all ranged attacks against them.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Spears of Oblivion: Ten spears of pure void deal 1d10 force damage each; target must save vs. disintegration if hit by 3+.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Vulnerability: Reduces a target's damage reduction (DR) or energy resistance by 10 for 1 round/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Battle Magic, Vorpal Spray: 30-ft. cone of razor-sharp force deals 1d8/level damage; threatens critical on 18-20. 
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Anarchic Blast: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d8/level damage; damage type is randomly rolled each casting. Mongoose Publishing
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Accelerate: Subject gains an extra move action each round for 1 round/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Age Object: Instantly ages a nonmagical object by 10 years/level; can cause wood to rot or metal to rust.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Ancestral Vision: Caster views the life of one of the subject’s ancestors for 1 minute/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Babble: Target's speech becomes incoherent; prevents verbal spellcasting (Will negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Bedlam: All creatures in a 30-ft. radius are affected by Confusion for 1 round/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Chronal Anchor: Prevents a target from being affected by any time-altering magic (Haste, Slow, Time Stop).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Chronal Displacement: Target is shunted 1 round into the future; they disappear and reappear in the same spot.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Chaotic Shield: Caster gains a 50% chance to negate any targeted spell; if negated, a random "chaos surge" occurs.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Delay: Caster delays the effect of a touched spell for up to 1 hour; it triggers upon a set condition.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Echoes of Time: Creates 1d4 temporal "duplicates" that provide flanking and a +4 dodge bonus to AC.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Entropic Touch: Touched object or creature takes 1d6 damage/level; ignores all hardness and DR.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Flux: Randomly increases or decreases one of the target's ability scores by 1d6 for 1 hour.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Glimpse of the Future: Caster gains a +10 insight bonus on their next single attack roll or saving throw.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Insanity Blast: 30-ft. cone deals 1d6/level psychic damage and permanently confuses targets (Will negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Momentary Pause: Time stops for everyone but the caster for exactly 1 round.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Mutate: Target's physical form shifts, granting a random benefit (claws, natural armor) and a random penalty.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Past Sight: Caster views events that occurred in their current location up to 1 year/level ago.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Recall: Caster teleports back to the exact location they occupied 1 round ago.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Ripple: Creates a wave of chaos that dispels all active magical effects in a 40-ft. radius.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Slow Time: All creatures within 60 ft. are affected as per the Slow spell; no save allowed for 1 round.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Temporal Bolt: Ray deals 1d6 damage/level; target must save or lose its next turn.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Temporal Repair: Instantly heals a target for all damage taken within the last 1 round.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chaos Magic, Unpredictable Bolt: Ray deals 1d12 damage/level; damage type and target are randomized if the first hit misses.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Chronomancy, Youthful Appearance: Subject appears 1d10 years younger/level (max age of young adult) for 1 hour/level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Shamans, Ancestral Shield: Caster summons spectral ancestors to provide a +4 deflection bonus and intercept one attack per 3 levels.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Shamans, Animal Aspect: Subject gains the physical ability scores and natural attacks of a chosen animal for 1 min./level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Fey Magic, Awaken the Land: Ritual that causes a 100-ft. radius of terrain to become sentient and defend against non-fey.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Fey Magic, Briar Patch: Creates a 20-ft. radius of supernatural thorns; movement deals 1d8 damage and entangles.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Fey Magic, Changeling: Touched humanoid is transformed into a specific fey creature of equal or lower HD (Will negates).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Fey Magic, Dance of the Pixie: Subject gains a +10 bonus on Tumble checks and a fly speed of 60 ft. (Good).
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Fey Magic, Glamour: Caster creates an illusory scene that is 50% real to those who fail their Will save.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Fey Magic, Iron Bane: Touched cold iron object or weapon becomes brittle, losing its hardness and enhancement bonus.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Shamans, Spirit Walk: Caster’s soul leaves their body to travel through the Ethereal Plane for 10 min./level.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Divine: Shamans, Totem Call: Summons a Great Spirit (template) to provide a 30-ft. aura of protection and healing.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Arcane Singularity: Creates a 5-ft. sphere that pulls all creatures within 30 ft. toward it and deals 10d6 force damage.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Blood to Ice: Target's internal fluids freeze, dealing 1d6/level cold damage and paralyzing for 1d4 rounds (Fortitude half/negates).
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Chain of Command: Caster establishes a telepathic link; any command given to the primary target is echoed to all subordinates.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Disintegrate, Lesser: Green ray deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6); if reduced to 0 hp, target is partially dusted.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Elemental Scourge: Caster fires four bolts (one of each element); each deals 4d6 damage and applies a unique status effect.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Force Cage, Lesser: Creates a 10-ft. cube of force that can hold one Medium creature (Reflex negates).
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Mage Bolt: Caster fires a ray of pure mana dealing 1d4 damage/level; ignores all energy resistances and DR.
Mongoose, Ultimate Divine, Martyr's Shield: Caster takes all damage dealt to a touched ally for 1 round/level; ally gains a +4 sacred bonus to AC.
Mongoose, Ultimate Divine, Nimbus of the Heavens: Caster is wreathed in gold light; undead within 30 ft. take 2d6 damage/round and are dazed.
Mongoose, Ultimate Divine, Pillar of Retribution: 10-ft. wide cylinder of light deals 1d8 damage/level (half fire, half divine) to evil creatures.
Mongoose, Ultimate Divine, Sacred Link: Links caster’s hit points to a temple or shrine; caster heals 5 hp/round while within 1 mile.
Mongoose, Ultimate Divine, Soul Bind, Lesser: Traps the soul of a creature of 5 HD or less in a mundane object for 1 day/level.
Mongoose, Ultimate Divine, Wrath of the Just: Caster and allies within 30 ft. gain a +4 morale bonus on attacks and damage against evil targets.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Zephyr’s Speed: Subject’s base land speed increases by 60 ft. and they gain a +4 dodge bonus to AC.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Zone of Silence, Greater: As Silence, but caster and chosen allies can still hear each other and cast verbal spells.
AEG, Magic, Acid Rain: Creates a localized downpour of acid dealing 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) in a 20-ft. radius.
AEG, Feats, Arcane Battery: Caster can store up to 5 spell levels in a specially prepared crystal for later use as a free action.
AEG, Magic, Armor of the Titans: Subject grows to Large size and gains a +8 natural armor bonus for 1 min./level.
AEG, Rokugan, Art of the Duel: Subject gains a +10 insight bonus on their next single attack roll or initiative check.
AEG, Dungeons, Aura of the Grave: Creates a 30-ft. radius that prevents undead from being turned and grants them +2 to all rolls.
AEG, Feats, Battle Focus: Caster gains a +4 morale bonus on Concentration checks and saves against mind-affecting effects.
AEG, Mercenaries, Blade of the Mercenary: Touched weapon gains a +1 enhancement bonus per 4 levels (max +5) for 1 hour.
AEG, Evil, Blood Link: Caster and target share damage; whenever one takes damage, the other takes half that amount.
AEG, Magic, Bone Spike: A spike of bone erupts from the ground, dealing 1d8 damage/level and pinning the target (Reflex half).
AEG, Good, Celestial Light: 60-ft. radius of light deals 1d6 damage/level to evil outsiders and undead.
AEG, Rokugan, Clarity of Mind: Subject is immune to confusion, insanity, and fear effects for 10 min./level.
AEG, Dragons, Dragon’s Breath: Caster gains a breath weapon (cone or line) dealing 1d6/level damage of a specific element.
AEG, Dungeons, Earth’s Strength: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution while touching natural stone.
AEG, Feats, Eldritch Shield: Caster gains Spell Resistance 15 + Caster Level against a single specified school of magic.
AEG, Magic, Elemental Burst: Creates a 20-ft. radius explosion of a chosen element (Fire, Cold, Elec, Acid) for 1d6/level.
AEG, Undead, Essence of the Wraith: Subject becomes incorporeal, gaining a 50% miss chance and ability to pass through walls.
AEG, Evil, Eye of the Betrayer: Caster can see through the eyes of any creature they have previously dealt damage to.
AEG, Feats, Focused Blast: Caster’s next area-of-effect spell deals max damage to one target within the area (Will half).
AEG, Dragons, Greater Dragon’s Wings: Caster sprouts wings, gaining a fly speed of 90 ft. (Good) and a wing buffet attack.
AEG, Dungeons, Heart of the Dungeon: Caster becomes aware of the location and status of all doors and traps within 500 ft.
AEG, Feats, Iron Mind: Subject gains a +4 resistance bonus on Will saves and immunity to sleep effects.
AEG, Magic, Kinetic Wave: A wave of force pushes all creatures in a 30-ft. radius back 20 ft. and deals 1d6/level damage.
AEG, Mercenaries, Legion’s March: Allies in a 60-ft. radius gain a +10 ft. bonus to land speed and immunity to fatigue.
AEG, Good, Mantle of the Just: Subject gains DR 10/evil and a +4 sacred bonus to AC.
AEG, Evil, Necrotic Touch: Touched target takes 1d6 negative energy damage/level and 1d4 Strength drain.
AEG, Rokugan, Mark of the Void: Target must save or lose all access to feats and extraordinary abilities for 1 round/level (Will negates).
AEG, Magic, Mind’s Eye: Caster creates an invisible sensor that can move 60 ft./round and see into the Ethereal Plane.
AEG, Evil, Mist of Skulls: 20-ft. radius cloud of spectral skulls deals 1d6 negative energy damage/round and potentially panics (Will negates).
AEG, Magic, Molten Spray: 30-ft. cone of liquid stone deals 1d6 fire and 1d6 bludgeoning damage per level (max 10d6 each).
AEG, Dungeons, Mountain’s Endurance: Subject gains +4 enhancement bonus to Constitution and DR 5/adamantine while underground.
AEG, Rokugan, Nature’s Touch: Caster heals 1d8 + 1/level to a target; if the target is an animal or elemental, it heals 3d8 + 1/level.
AEG, Evil, Night’s Terror: Subject is haunted by nightmares, taking 1d4 Wisdom damage and becoming shaken for 24 hours (Will negates).
AEG, Magic, Obsidian Shards: 15-ft. cone of volcanic glass deals 1d8/level slashing damage and 1d4 bleed damage for 3 rounds.
AEG, Rokugan, Path of the Crane: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Diplomacy and a +4 dodge bonus to AC for 1 hour.
AEG, Rokugan, Path of the Dragon: Subject gains the ability to cast any one 1st-level spell they have seen cast in the last 24 hours.
AEG, Rokugan, Path of the Lion: Subject gains a +4 morale bonus on attack rolls and weapon damage for 1 min./level.
AEG, Rokugan, Path of the Scorpion: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Bluff and Hide checks and can Detect Lies.
AEG, Rokugan, Path of the Unicorn: Subject's base land speed increases by 30 ft. and they gain a +4 bonus on Handle Animal.
AEG, Rokugan, Path of the Wolf: Allies within 30 ft. gain a +2 bonus on attack rolls and can flank from any adjacent square.
AEG, Magic, Pillar of Salt: Target is transformed into a statue of salt; if broken, the target dies (Fortitude negates).
AEG, Good, Prayer of Protection: Caster and allies within 20 ft. gain a +2 deflection bonus to AC and +2 resistance bonus on saves.
AEG, Evil, Rain of Blood: 40-ft. radius of supernatural rain sickens all non-evil creatures and grants evil creatures 5 temporary hp/round.
AEG, Magic, Ray of Deception: Ray forces the target to believe an illusion is real; target takes –4 to AC and saves against the illusion.
AEG, Dungeons, Rock to Mud: Note: AEG variant; Transforms 10-ft. cube of stone into mud; creatures in mud are grappled.
AEG, Rokugan, Secrets of the Land: Caster learns the history, occupants, and hidden treasures of a 1-mile radius area.
AEG, Magic, Shadow Blade: Creates a blade of darkness that deals 1d8 + 1/level damage as a touch attack and ignores armor.
AEG, Rokugan, Shield of the Elements: Caster chooses an element; gains resistance 30 against that element and a +4 bonus to AC.
AEG, Magic, Shocking Burst: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 electricity damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially stuns for 1 round.
AEG, Rokugan, Spirit of the Blade: Touched weapon gains a +2 enhancement bonus and the Ghost Touch property.
AEG, Magic, Static Field: 20-ft. radius area deals 1d6 electricity damage to any creature that takes a move action.
AEG, Rokugan, Taint Sense: Caster detects the presence and strength of the Shadowlands Taint within a 60-ft. cone. AEG Rokugan
AEG, Magic, Telepathic Command: Caster issues a single telepathic command to a creature; functions as Suggestion but ignores language barriers.
AEG, Dungeons, Terraforming: Caster reshapes a 10-ft. cube/level of earth, sand, or stone into a new configuration (10-minute casting).
AEG, Magic, Thunderous Clap: Creates a burst of sound in a 15-ft. radius dealing 1d6 sonic damage/level and deafening for 1d4 rounds.
AEG, Rokugan, Tome of Secrets: Caster gains a +10 insight bonus on their next Knowledge or Decipher Script check.
AEG, Evil, Touch of the Abyss: Touched target takes 1d6/level damage (max 15d6) and is shaken for 1 round/level (Fortitude half).
AEG, Good, Touch of the Heavens: Touched target is healed for 1d8 + 1/level and gains a +2 sacred bonus on its next save.
AEG, Magic, Transmute Rock to Glass: Transforms a 10-ft. cube of stone into transparent, fragile glass.
AEG, Dungeons, Tunneling: Caster creates a 5-ft. diameter tunnel through earth or stone at a rate of 10 ft./round.
AEG, Ultimate, Ultimate Arcane Shield: Caster is immune to all spells of 4th level or lower for 1 round/level.
AEG, Ultimate, Ultimate Destruction: Targeted ray deals 20 damage/level (max 400); if killed, target is disintegrated.
AEG, Ultimate, Ultimate Healing: Touched target is restored to full hit points and all negative conditions are removed (functions as Heal).
AEG, Ultimate, Ultimate Invisibility: Subject is invisible and cannot be detected by See Invisibility or True Seeing (Will negates).
AEG, Evil, Unholy Ground: 40-ft. radius area is desecrated; undead gain +4 Turn Resistance and +2 to attacks/saves.
AEG, Magic, Vaporous Form: Subject becomes a cloud of gas; gains DR 10/magic and fly speed 20 ft. (Perfect).
AEG, Rokugan, Void Bolt: Ray of nothingness deals 1d6 damage/level; ignores all damage reduction and energy resistances.
AEG, Rokugan, Void Shield: Caster gains a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a 50% chance to negate any critical hit or sneak attack.
AEG, Magic, Wall of Magma: Creates a vertical wall of molten rock dealing 2d6 fire damage to those adjacent and 10d6 to those passing through.
AEG, Dungeons, Wall of Whispers: Creates a transparent wall that repeats any sound made on one side to the other side with 100% clarity.
AEG, Magic, Water Cannon: 60-ft. line of high-pressure water deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage/level and bull rushes targets.
AEG, Rokugan, Way of the Clans: Allies within 30 ft. gain the "Way of the [Clan]" benefit of the caster's specific Rokugan clan.
AEG, Magic, Weapon of the Gods: Touched weapon gains a +5 enhancement bonus and deals an extra 1d6 damage of a chosen energy type.
AEG, Evil, Whispers of Madness: Target hears chaotic voices, taking 1d4 Wisdom damage and becoming confused (Will negates).
AEG, Magic, Wind Shear: 60-ft. line of razor-sharp air deals 1d8/level slashing damage; threatens a critical hit on 19-20.
AEG, Dungeons, Zone of Detection: Caster is alerted to the exact location of any creature entering a 60-ft. radius area.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Acidic Curse: Target's sweat becomes acidic, dealing 1d6 acid damage/round and ruining equipment (Fortitude negates). Malhavoc Press
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Alacrity: Subject gains a +10 ft. enhancement bonus to speed and +1 on initiative for 1 min./level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Amnesia: Target permanently loses all memory of the last 24 hours (Will negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Arcane Bolt: Bolt of pure magic deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6); ignores energy resistance.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Armor of Darkness: Grants a +4 deflection bonus and darkvision; undead gain +2 turn resistance.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Battle Cry: Caster’s shout grants allies within 30 ft. a +1 morale bonus to attacks and saves against fear.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Bind Sight: Caster shares the vision of a touched subject for 1 min./level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Black Dragon’s Blood: Caster’s blood becomes acidic; attackers taking a bite or claw attack take 1d6 acid damage.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Blood Siphon: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 damage/level; caster gains half that as temporary hit points.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Bolt of Bedazzlement: Ray of shifting colors dazes the target for 1d4 rounds (Will negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Call of the Wild: Summons a CR-appropriate animal to fight; animal gains +2 Str/Con.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Chain of Eyes: Note: Malhavoc variant; Caster can "hop" their vision from one subject to another via touch.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Chill of the Grave: Touched target takes 1d6 cold damage/level and is fatigued.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Cloak of Righteousness: Subject gains a +4 sacred bonus to AC and SR 12 + Caster Level against evil spells.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Color Blast: 30-ft. cone of light blinds targets for 1 round/level (Reflex negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Compelling Question: Target must answer a single question truthfully (Will negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Corrosive Touch: Touched target takes 1d6/level acid damage; bypasses 5 points of hardness.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Crushing Grasp: Spectral hand grapples target with a bonus equal to Caster Level + primary stat.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Darkfire: Note: Malhavoc version; Black flames deal 1d6/level damage (half fire, half cold).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Death’s Call: All living creatures with 10 hp or less in a 30-ft. radius must save or die.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Dragon’s Speed: Subject gains a +20 ft. bonus to speed and the benefits of the Run feat.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Earth Hammer: Touched weapon deals +1d6 bludgeoning damage and ignores DR/adamantine.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Echoing Shout: Deals 1d6 sonic damage/level in a cone; target is deafened for 1 min.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Eldritch Armor: Creates a field of force providing a +4 armor bonus that stacks with physical shields.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Eldritch Blast: Note: Original Malhavoc version; Ray of force deals 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Faerie Fog: 20-ft. radius fog outlines invisible creatures and grants a +2 bonus to hit them. Monte Cook Games
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, False Gravity: Subject can choose which direction is "down" for themselves for 1 min./level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Familiar Sense: Caster can see through their familiar's eyes and hear through its ears at any distance.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Feedback: Target takes 1d6 force damage per level of the spell they are currently casting (Will half).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Fiery Fists: Caster’s unarmed strikes deal +1d6 fire damage and ignite flammable objects.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Flaming Bolt: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 10d6) and potentially dazes.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Flesh of Iron: Subject gains DR 10/magic and +4 natural armor but takes a –4 penalty to Dexterity.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Float: Subject becomes weightless; can be moved by wind or by pushing off surfaces.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Force Blast: 60-ft. line of force deals 1d6 damage/level and knocks targets prone (No Save for damage).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Frost Bolt: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 10d6) and slows target for 1 round.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Gaze of Death: Caster’s gaze kills one creature with 50 hp or less (Fortitude negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Ghost Touch: Touched weapon or object gains the Ghost Touch property for 1 min./level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Glimpse of Eternity: Target is stunned for 1d4 rounds by a vision of the infinite (Will negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Greater...: Note: Prefix; Monte’s "Greater" variants often add "Eldritch" secondary effects (e.g., Greater Magic Missile adds +1 damage per die).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Guided Strike: Caster’s next attack roll gains a +10 insight bonus (Swift Action).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Ice Hammer: Creates a warhammer of ice dealing 1d8 + 1/level damage (Half bludgeoning, half cold).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Illusory Wall: Note: Malhavoc version; Adds a "solid" tactile component that requires a higher Will save to disbelieve.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Inner Shield: Subject gains a +4 resistance bonus on saves against mind-affecting effects.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Iron Bones: Undead subject gains a +6 natural armor bonus for 1 hour/level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Jolting Slash: Touched slashing weapon deals +1d6 electricity damage and potentially stuns on a crit.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Knell: Caster kills a creature at –1 to –9 hp, gaining 1d8 temporary hp and +1 to Caster Level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Lladra’s Cypher: Caster can read any encoded or magical text as if it were in their native tongue.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Lladra’s Gateway: Note: Malhavoc variant; Creates a permanent portal between two prepared locations (XP cost).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Mage’s Parrying Shield: Creates a shield of force that provides a +4 shield bonus and can be used to counterspell.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Magical Backlash: Target takes damage equal to twice the level of the next spell it attempts to cast.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Memory of Death: Target experiences the sensation of its own death; target must save or die from shock (Will negates). Monte Cook Games
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Mental Block: Subject cannot cast spells or use spell-like abilities for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Mirror of Memory: Caster views the subject's most recent 24 hours of memory as if watching a playback.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Misty Step: Caster teleports up to 30 ft. as a swift action; leaves behind a cloud of mist.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Mystic Shield: Note: Malhavoc variant; Caster gains a +4 deflection bonus and SR 15 + level against targeted spells.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Nature’s Command: Caster can command one plant or animal as per Suggestion (No Save for non-intelligent).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Necrotic Burst: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 negative energy damage/level (max 15d6) and sickens.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Night’s Mantle: Subject gains a +10 bonus on Hide and Move Silently and concealment in dim light.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Nullify: Targeted dispel that prevents the target from casting the specific spell it just attempted.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Orb of Sound: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 sonic damage/level (max 15d6) and deafens.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Pain of the Past: Target relives all physical damage taken in the last 24 hours (Will half).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Phantom Blade: Creates a blade of force that ignores armor and deals 1d8 + 1/level damage.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Pillar of Sound: Creates a 10-ft. wide cylinder of sonic energy dealing 1d6 sonic damage/level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Power Word Silence: Target with 100 hp or less is magically silenced (No Save).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Primal Scream: Caster’s shout stuns all creatures in a 30-ft. radius for 1d4 rounds (Fortitude negates).
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Ray of Exhaustion: Note: Malhavoc version; Ray makes target exhausted; no save for fatigue.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Reflection: Caster gains a 50% chance to reflect any targeted spell back at the original caster.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Resonating Resistance: Target gains SR 12 + level; if a spell is resisted, the next spell's SR check is +2 harder.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Searing Light: Note: Malhavoc variant; Ray deals 1d8/level damage; ignores 5 points of SR.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Shadow Weapon: Note: Malhavoc version; Creates a +2 Ghost Touch weapon of shadow for 1 min./level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Song of Discord: Note: Malhavoc variant; Target must save or attack its nearest ally for 1 round/level.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Sonic Shield: Note: Malhavoc version; Grants +4 deflection bonus and deals 1d8 sonic damage to melee attackers.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Soul Blast: Ray of pure spirit deals 1d6 damage/level; bypasses all energy resistances and DR.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Spell Turning, Lesser: Reflects up to 1d4+2 spell levels back at the caster.
Malhavoc, Book of Eldritch Might, Static Field: Note: Malhavoc variant; 20-ft. radius deals 1d6 electricity damage per 5 ft. of movement.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Acidic Spray: 30-ft. cone deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 10d6) and continues to deal 1d6 damage for 1d3 rounds. Green Ronin Publishing
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Alchemical Weapon: Imbues a weapon with the properties of an alchemical substance (e.g., Alchemist’s Fire) for 1 hit per 3 levels.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Arcane Shield: Creates a 10-ft. radius sphere that provides all allies within a +4 deflection bonus to AC.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Astral Step: Caster teleports up to 10 ft./level as a move action; does not provoke attacks of opportunity.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Aura of Awe: Enemies within 20 ft. must save or be shaken for as long as they remain in the aura.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Battle Trance: Subject gains immunity to fear and a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls and damage for 1 min./level.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Binding Earth: Target is entangled and its speed is halved as the earth rises to pull it down (Reflex negates).
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Blood Frenzy: Subject gains +4 Strength and Constitution but –2 AC; must attack the nearest creature each round.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Bone Grasp: Spectral skeletal hand grapples a target and deals 1d6 cold damage per round.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Chilling Ray: Ray deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 10d6) and target is fatigued (Fortitude half/negates).
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Corrosive Touch: Touched target takes 1d8/level acid damage; ignores 5 points of hardness on objects.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Dazzling Burst: 15-ft. radius burst of light permanently blinds creatures with 3 HD or less; others are dazzled.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Death’s Shadow: Subject becomes invisible specifically to undead creatures of 10 HD or less.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Earthen Grasp: A hand made of soil rises to grapple a target with a bonus equal to Caster Level + 5.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Eldritch Bolt: Bolt of pure magic deals 1d4 damage/level; ignores all energy resistances and damage reduction.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Elemental Infusion: Touched weapon deals +1d6 damage of a chosen energy type (Fire, Cold, Elec, Acid).
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Force Spike: A single spike of force deals 1d8 + 1/level damage and ignores 5 points of Spell Resistance.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Gaseous Cloak: Subject gains the benefits of Gaseous Form but can still manipulate objects and speak.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Ghostly Visage: Caster’s face becomes a terrifying specter, forcing a save vs. fear on all who view it.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Hammer of Force: Creates a warhammer of force dealing 1d10 + 1/level damage; threatens a critical on 19-20.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Iron Skin: Subject gains DR 10/adamantine but takes a –4 penalty on Dexterity and Move Silently checks.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Kinetic Blast: 60-ft. line of force deals 1d6/level bludgeoning damage and bull rushes targets.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Light of Truth: 60-ft. radius of light dispels all illusions of 3rd level or lower and outlines invisible creatures.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Mystic Link: Caster and a willing subject share hit points; damage to one is split equally between both.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Nature’s Guardian: Summons a CR-appropriate fey or animal that gains the Celestial or Fiendish template.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Painful Command: Subject is compelled to obey a single command; if they resist, they take 1d6/level nonlethal damage (Will negates). Green Ronin Publishing
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Petrifying Gaze: Caster’s gaze turns targets to stone permanently (Fortitude negates).
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Phantom Steed, Greater: As Phantom Steed, but the mount can fly (90 ft., Good) and has an AC of 20 + Caster Level.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Pillar of Fire: Creates a 10-ft. wide, 30-ft. high cylinder of flame dealing 1d6/level fire damage.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Primal Senses: Subject gains the Scent ability, Low-Light Vision, and a +4 competence bonus on Listen/Spot.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Quicksand: Transforms a 20-ft. radius of earth into deep quicksand; movement requires a DC 20 Swim check.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Ray of Enfeeblement, Greater: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/level Strength penalty; target is also exhausted (Fortitude half).
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Razor Wind: 60-ft. line of sharp air deals 1d8/level slashing damage; threatens a critical on 18-20.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Resonating Shield: Caster gains a +4 deflection bonus; any melee attacker takes 1d6 sonic damage.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Sacred Haven: Note: Green Ronin variant; Allies within 30 ft. gain a +2 sacred bonus to AC and Saves.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Searing Ray: Ranged touch attack deals 1d8/level fire damage; ignores 5 points of Fire Resistance.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Shadow Bind: Target’s shadow becomes solid, entangling the target and dealing 1d4 Strength damage.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Shockwave: Caster slams the ground, dealing 1d6/level bludgeoning damage and knocking all adjacent targets prone.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Silver Claws: Touched creature’s natural weapons are treated as Alchemical Silver for bypassing DR.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Sonic Blast: 30-ft. cone of sound deals 1d6/level sonic damage and deafens for 1d6 rounds (Fortitude half).
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Soul Blast: Ray of pure spirit deals 1d6 damage/level; ignores all Energy Resistance and Damage Reduction.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Spell Turning, Lesser: Reflects 1d4+2 spell levels back at the original caster.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Spirit Walk: Caster becomes incorporeal and invisible for 1 round/level (Move action to activate).
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Static Field: 20-ft. radius area deals 1d6 electricity damage per 5 ft. of movement to all within.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Storm of Retribution: 40-ft. radius storm deals 2d6 cold and 2d6 electricity damage/round (Concentration).
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Temporal Flux: Caster gains an extra standard action for 1 round/level; cannot cast spells with the extra action.
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Thundering Bolt: Ray deals 1d6 electricity and 1d6 sonic damage/level; potentially stuns for 1 round.
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Toxic Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of poisonous gas deals 1d4 Constitution damage per round (Fortitude negates).
Green Ronin, Advanced Player’s Guide, Unholy Blight, Greater: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d8/level damage and sickens Good creatures (Will half).
Green Ronin, Mastering Magic, Wall of Magma: Creates a vertical wall of molten rock dealing 2d6 fire to those adjacent and 10d6 to those passing through.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Acidic Vapour: 20-ft. radius cloud deals 1d6 acid damage/round and obscures vision as Obscuring Mist. Fantasy Flight Games
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Aegis of Force: Creates a shimmering field providing a +4 deflection bonus to AC and immunity to Magic Missile.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Air of Deception: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Bluff checks and a +5 bonus on saves against Zone of Truth.
FFG, School of Evocation, Arcane Cannon: Creates a stationary force construct that fires one 4d6 force bolt per round as a move action.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Armor of Earth: Subject gains +4 natural armor and DR 5/adamantine but moves at half speed.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Aura of Radiance: Caster sheds bright light (60-ft.) that deals 1d8 damage/round to undead and blind-sensitive creatures.
FFG, School of Illusion, Barrier of Lies: Creates an illusory wall that reflects the viewer's desires, granting a –4 penalty on saves to disbelieve.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Battle-Mage’s Boon: Caster gains a +4 insight bonus on their next single attack roll or caster level check.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Binding Chains: Spectral chains entangle a target and deal 1d6 bludgeoning damage/round (Reflex negates).
FFG, School of Necromancy, Blood Siphon: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 damage/2 levels; caster heals an equal amount.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Bone Shards: Caster fires a 15-ft. cone of bone fragments dealing 1d6/level piercing damage (max 5d6).
FFG, School of Evocation, Burning Rain: Creates a 40-ft. radius area of falling embers dealing 1d6 fire damage/round (No Save).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Call of the Deep: Summons a CR-appropriate aquatic creature from the nearest water source to fight for 1 round/level.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Chilling Grip: Touched target takes 1d8/level cold damage and is fatigued (Fortitude half/negates).
FFG, School of Transmutation, Corrosive Touch: Touched target takes 1d6 acid damage/level; ignores 10 points of hardness on objects.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Crystal Blast: 30-ft. cone of crystal shards deals 1d6/level slashing damage; threatens a critical hit on 19-20.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Darkling Path: Caster and allies travel through the Shadow Plane, moving 10 miles per level per hour.
FFG, School of Necromancy, Death’s Embrace: Subject becomes invisible to all undead and gains a +4 resistance bonus against negative energy.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Divine Hammer: Note: FFG version; Creates a warhammer of force dealing 1d10 + 1/level damage; ignores DR/magic.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Earthen Grasp: A hand of soil rises to grapple a target with a bonus equal to Caster Level + Strength Mod.
FFG, School of Evocation, Eldritch Bolt: Bolt of pure magic deals 1d4 damage/level; bypasses all energy resistances.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Elemental Infusion: Touched weapon deals +1d6 damage of a chosen energy type (Fire, Cold, Elec, Acid).
FFG, School of Conjuration, Familiar Sense: Caster can see and hear through their familiar at any distance on the same plane.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Flame Lash: Creates a 15-ft. whip of fire dealing 1d6 + 1/level damage; can be used for reach attacks.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Force Spike: A single spike of force deals 1d8 + 1/level damage; ignores 5 points of Spell Resistance.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Gaseous Form, Greater: As Gaseous Form, but the subject retains its fly speed (Perfect) and can cast spells with only verbal components. Fantasy Flight Games
FFG, School of Evocation, Geyser: Creates a 5-ft. radius pillar of scalding water dealing 1d6 fire and 1d6 bludgeoning damage/level (max 10d6 each).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Ghostly Visage: Caster’s face becomes a terrifying specter, forcing a save vs. fear on all who view it.
FFG, School of Illusion, Glamour of the Fey: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and a 50% miss chance against non-magical attacks.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Glass Strike: Transforms an object or creature into fragile glass (Fortitude negates).
FFG, School of Evocation, Gravity Well: Creates a 10-ft. radius sphere that pulls all creatures toward its center and slows them.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Great Blast: 60-ft. cone deals 1d8/level force damage and stuns targets for 1 round (Reflex half).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Guided Strike: Caster’s next attack roll gains a +10 insight bonus (Swift Action).
FFG, School of Necromancy, Halt Undead, Greater: As Halt Undead, but affects up to 1 HD/level and bypasses turn resistance.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Hammer of Force: Creates a warhammer of force dealing 1d10 + 1/level damage; threatens a critical on 19-20.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Heart of the Mountain: Caster gains DR 10/adamantine and becomes immune to critical hits for 1 min./level.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Heat Wave: 30-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire damage/level and causes targets to become fatigued.
FFG, School of Evocation, Hell’s Fire: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d6/level damage; half is fire, half is unholy power (No Save for unholy).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Holy Fire: Touched weapon deals +1d6 fire damage and +2d6 against undead or evil outsiders.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Ice Spear: Creates a spear of ice that deals 2d6 cold and 2d6 piercing damage as a ranged touch attack.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Icy Grip: Touched target takes 1d6 cold damage/level and is entangled in frost.
FFG, School of Illusion, Illusory Army: Creates 1d4 + 1/level illusory soldiers that provide flanking and take attacks of opportunity.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Immolate: Target bursts into flames, taking 1d6 fire damage/level (max 10d6) and potentially igniting.
FFG, School of Necromancy, Inevitable Doom: Target takes 1d6 damage per round; damage cannot be healed while spell lasts.
FFG, School of Evocation, Inferno: Creates a 20-ft. radius of intense heat dealing 6d6 fire damage/round (Concentration).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Iron Skin: Subject gains +8 natural armor but takes a –4 penalty to Dexterity.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Jade Shield: Protects subject from poison and disease; grants +4 resistance bonus against transformation.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Kinetic Wave: A wave of force pushes all creatures in a 30-ft. radius back 20 ft. and deals 1d6/level damage.
FFG, School of Necromancy, Life-Bond: Two subjects share hit points; whenever one takes damage, it is divided equally between both.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Lightning Lash: Creates a 15-ft. whip of electricity dealing 1d6 + 1/level damage; can be used to trip.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Maelstrom: Creates a 40-ft. radius whirlpool in water, drawing in ships and creatures (deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage). Fantasy Flight Games
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Mark of the Outcast: Target is branded with a visible rune; all Diplomacy/Bluff checks against the target gain a +10 bonus.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Memory’s End: Target permanently loses all memory of a specific event or person (Will negates).
FFG, School of Evocation, Molten Metal: Touched metal object melts into liquid; deals 2d6 fire damage to anyone holding or wearing it.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Mystic Shield: Caster is immune to all spells of 3rd level or lower; cannot be bypassed by SR.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Nature’s Wrath: Plants in a 60-ft. radius attack enemies (deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage/round).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Necrotic Touch: Touched target takes 1d6 negative energy damage/level and 1d4 Strength damage.
FFG, School of Necromancy, Night’s Embrace: Caster becomes invisible while in any area of dim light or darkness.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Obsidian Bolt: Ray of volcanic glass deals 1d8/level damage; target takes 1d4 bleed damage for 3 rounds.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Orb of Obsidian: Creates a 5-ft. sphere of glass that the caster can roll into enemies for 6d6 bludgeoning damage.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Paralyzing Blast: 30-ft. cone of energy paralyzes all living creatures for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Petrifying Gaze: Caster’s eyes turn targets to stone permanently (Fortitude negates).
FFG, School of Evocation, Pillar of Fire: Creates a 10-ft. wide, 30-ft. high cylinder of flame dealing 1d6/level fire damage.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Plague of Flies: Summons a swarm of biting flies that deals 1d6 damage/round and sickens those within.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Quicksand: Transforms a 20-ft. radius of earth into deep quicksand; creatures must swim or sink.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Ray of Rust: Ray destroys 1d6 lbs. of nonmagical iron or alloy per level.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Reaper’s Scythe: Creates a blade of negative energy that deals 2d6 + 1/level damage and heals the caster.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Scales of the Serpent: Subject gains a +4 natural armor bonus and resistance to poison.
FFG, School of Evocation, Shockwave: Caster slams the ground, dealing 1d6/level bludgeoning damage and knocking all adjacent targets prone.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Soul’s Window: Caster views the subject's true alignment and most recent strong emotion (Will negates).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Torrent: Creates a 60-ft. line of high-pressure water dealing 1d6/level damage and bull rushing targets.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Voice of the Titan: Caster’s voice carries for miles and can daze all creatures within 60 ft. (Will negates).
FFG, School of Evocation, Wall of Magma: Creates a vertical wall of molten rock dealing 10d6 fire damage to those passing through.
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Weapon of Energy: Touched weapon deals +1d6 acid, cold, electricity, or fire damage (caster’s choice).
FFG, Spells & Spellcraft, Zone of Detection: Caster is alerted to the exact location of any creature entering a 60-ft. radius area.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Abundant Ammunition: A touched container of nonmagical ammunition (arrows, bolts) refills itself every round for 1 minute per level [Paizo Official Store].
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Acid Pit: Creates a pit filled with acid that is 10-ft. square and 10-ft. deep per 2 levels; it deals 2d6 acid damage per round to trapped creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Adjustable Disguise: Similar to Disguise Self, but the caster can change the appearance as a swift action throughout the duration.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Aggravate: Heightens a target's natural inclination to attack; it must save or attack the nearest creature (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Alchemical Allocation: A caster can gain the benefits of a potion or elixir without actually consuming it (requires 1 round of contact).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ant Haul: Triples a subject’s carrying capacity for 2 hours per level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Aqueous Orb: Creates a 10-ft. rolling sphere of water that engulfs and entangles creatures in its path (Reflex negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Arcane Cannon: Creates a magical cannon that fires 4d6 force damage bolts at the caster’s direction.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Archon’s Aura: A 20-ft. radius aura penalizes enemies with –2 to AC and saves (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Arrow of Law: A ray of lawful energy deals 1d8 damage per 2 levels (maximum 5d8) to chaotic creatures and dazes them.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Aspect of the Bear: A subject gains a +2 enhancement to AC and a +2 bonus on grapple checks for 1 minute per level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Aspect of the Falcon: A subject gains a +3 competence bonus on Spot checks and +1 on ranged attack rolls.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Aura of Doom: A 20-ft. radius aura causes enemies to become shaken (No Save).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ballot Box: A caster creates a magical vessel that detects if any votes or tokens placed inside were influenced by magic.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Banish Seeming: A targeted dispel that specifically affects illusions and polymorph effects within a 30-ft. radius.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bard’s Escape: The caster and up to one ally per 2 levels teleport up to 30 ft. (Swift Action; Bard only).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Barrow Haze: Creates a 20-ft. radius cloud of tomb-mist that grants concealment and deals 1d6 negative energy damage to living creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Beast Shape I-IV: Note: Normalizing to 3.5E Polymorph sub-school; The caster takes the form of a Small or Medium animal, gaining its stats and natural attacks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bestow Grace: A subject (Good only) gains a sacred bonus on all saving throws equal to their Charisma bonus.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blaze of Glory: The caster unleashes a burst of holy energy upon death, healing Good allies for 1d6 per level and damaging Evil foes.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bleed: Note: Paizo version; A touched creature takes 1 point of damage per round until stabilized (Necromancy cantrip).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blessed Fist: A touched subject’s unarmed strikes do not provoke attacks of opportunity and are treated as Good for DR.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blessing of Courage and Life: A subject gains a +2 morale bonus on saves versus fear; can discharge to heal 1d8 + 1 per level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blessing of Fervor: Allies choose one benefit per round: +2 to AC/Attacks, extra attack, or increased speed.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blood Biography: The caster learns the name, race, and manner of death of a creature by touching its blood.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blood Transcription: Caster consumes a dead wizard's blood to temporarily learn one spell from the corpse's spellbook. Paizo Official Store
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bloody Claws: Touched creature’s natural weapons deal 1d4 bleed damage on every successful hit.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Blur: Note: Paizo version; Subject's outline wavers, granting a 20% miss chance for 1 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Boiling Blood: Target's blood boils, dealing 1d6 fire damage/round; if target has the Orc subtype, it gains +2 Strength.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bone Shaker: Caster rattles a creature's skeleton, dealing 1d6 damage/level and forcing a move in a direction of choice.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Borrow Fortune: Caster rolls two dice for a single check and takes the better; must roll two dice and take the worse next round.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Borrow Skill: Caster gains the skill ranks of a touched willing subject for 1 round/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bowstaff: Touched shortbow or longbow can be used as a quarterstaff without penalizing the bow’s integrity (Swift Action).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Brand: Inscribes a permanent, painful mark on a subject (1 damage); mark glows when the caster is near.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Break Enchantment: Note: Paizo version; Frees subjects from enchantments, transmutations, and curses of 5th level or lower. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Breath of Life: Caster heals a creature for 5d8 + 1/level; can restore life if cast within 1 round of death.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Bristle: Touched creature’s natural armor bonus is added to its damage rolls, but its AC is reduced by the same amount.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Burning Sands: 20-ft. radius of ground becomes hot sand; movement is halved and deals 1d4 fire damage/round.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Burst of Glory: 10-ft. radius burst grants allies a +1 sacred bonus on attacks and saves against fear.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Burst of Nettles: 15-ft. radius burst deals 3d6 piercing damage and 1d6 acid damage/round for 3 rounds (Reflex half).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Burst of Speed: Caster gains a +20 ft. bonus to speed and does not provoke attacks of opportunity for 1 round (Swift Action).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cacophonous Call: Target is nauseated by discordant sounds for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Call Animal: Caster calls one animal of a specific type to come to their location (not a summoning/compulsion).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Calm Spirit: Calms a haunt or restless spirit, preventing it from manifesting for 1 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cape of Wasps: Caster is surrounded by a swarm of wasps that grants 20% concealment and deals 2d6 damage to attackers.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cast Out: Targeted dispel that forces a possessing creature or extraplanar entity out of a host (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Castigate: Caster shouts a rebuke; target is shaken and potentially cowered by guilt (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Caustic Blood: Target’s blood becomes acid; attackers taking a bite or claw attack take 1d6 acid damage/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Challenge Evil: Caster challenges an evil creature; caster gains a +2 sacred bonus on attacks and AC against that foe.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Chameleon Stride: Subject gains a +10 bonus on Hide checks and a +10 ft. bonus to land speed.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Chaos Hammer: 20-ft. radius burst of chaotic energy deals 1d8/2 levels damage and slows lawful creatures. Paizo Official Store
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Charm Animal: One animal regards the caster as a trusted ally (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Charm Monster: As Charm Person, but affects any living creature. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Chill Touch: One touch/level deals 1d6 negative energy damage and potentially 1 Str damage.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Circle of Clarity: 20-ft. radius provides a +4 bonus on saves against illusions and +4 on Search/Spot.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cleanse: Note: Paizo version; Caster is cured of blindness, deafness, disease, and poison (Self only).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cloak of Chaos: Allies gain +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against lawful creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cloak of Dreams: 5-ft. radius aura causes creatures to fall into a deep sleep (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cloak of Shadows: 10-ft. radius of darkness grants the caster total concealment and a +10 bonus on Hide.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cloudkill: Note: Paizo version; 20-ft. radius fog kills 3 HD or less; others take Con damage. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Companion Mind Link: Caster and animal companion share a telepathic link across any distance.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Compel Hostility: Caster forces enemies to attack them instead of their allies for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Confusion: Note: Paizo version; Subjects behave erratically (babbling, attacking) for 1 round/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Consecrate: Note: Paizo version; Fills area with positive energy, weakening undead and empowering turn attempts.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Control Summoned Creature: Caster takes control of a creature summoned by another (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Coordinated Effort: Caster and allies within 30 ft. share one teamwork feat known by the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Corruption Resistance: Subject gains resistance 10, 20, or 30 against a specific alignment's power.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Coward's Lament: Target must save or be unable to move away from the caster; if they do, they are shaken.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Create Pit: Creates a 10-ft. square, 10-ft. deep per 2 levels pit; creatures must save or fall in.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Crusader's Edge: Touched weapon gains the Bane property against evil outsiders and sickens on a crit.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cup of Dust: Target is afflicted with extreme thirst, becoming fatigued and dehydrated (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Cure Light Wounds: Note: Paizo version; Heals 1d8 + 1/level (max +5). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Curse of Disgust: Target is revolted by a specific object or creature, becoming sickened when near it.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dancing Lantern: Creates a floating lantern that sheds bright light and moves as the caster directs.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Darkness: Note: Paizo version; Creates a 20-ft. radius of shadowy illumination (20% miss chance).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Daze: Note: Paizo version; Humanoid of 4 HD or less loses its next action (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Daze Monster: As Daze, but affects any creature type up to 6 HD.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Deadly Finale: Caster ends a bardic performance to deal 2d8 sonic damage/level in a 40-ft. radius (Reflex half).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Death Ward: Note: Paizo version; Immunity to death spells, magical death effects, and energy drain. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Debilitating Portent: Target deals half damage with all attacks and spells (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Deeper Darkness: Note: Paizo version; Object sheds shadowy illumination in a 60-ft. radius.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Deep Slumber: Note: Paizo version; Puts 10 HD of creatures into a comatose sleep (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Defending Bone: A floating bone provides DR 5/bludgeoning against all attacks (max 5 damage/level).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Defensive Shock: Caster is wreathed in electricity; deals 1d6 damage to the next creature that hits them in melee.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Delay Pain: Target ignores the effects of pain-based spells and conditions for 1 hour/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Delay Poison: Note: Paizo version; Subject is immune to poison effects for 1 hour/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Delayed Blast Fireball: Note: Paizo version; 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire/level (max 20d6).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Denounce: Caster makes an audience indifferent or unfriendly toward a specific target (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Desecrate: Note: Paizo version; Fills area with negative energy, buffing undead and penalizing turn attempts.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Detect Magic: Note: Paizo version; Detects spells and magic items within a 60-ft. cone. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Detect Scrying: Note: Paizo version; Aware of any attempt to observe via scrying/divination.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Detect Undead: Note: Paizo version; Reveals the presence of undead within 60 ft.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Detonate: Caster explodes, dealing 1d6/level damage of a chosen energy type to everyone in a 15-ft. radius.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dictum: Note: Paizo version; Lawful word kills, paralyzes, slows, or deafens non-lawful creatures based on HD.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dimension Door: Note: Paizo version; Teleports caster and allies up to 400 ft. + 40 ft./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dimensional Anchor: Note: Paizo version; Green ray prevents target from using any extradimensional travel.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Diminish Plants: Note: Paizo version; Reduces size or stunts growth of normal plants in a large area.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Discern Lies: Note: Paizo version; Caster knows if a subject is deliberately speaking a lie.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Discern Location: Note: Paizo version; Instantly reveals the exact location of a creature or object.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Disfigurement: Target's face or body is horribly altered, granting a –2 penalty to AC and all checks (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Disintegrate: Thin green ray deals 2d6 damage/level (max 40d6); targets reduced to 0 hp are turned to fine dust. Paizo Official Store
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dismissal: Forces an extraplanar creature back to its home plane (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dispel Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Grants +4 AC and can be discharged to banish an aligned creature or end an aligned spell.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dispel Magic: Targeted, area, or counterspell attempt to end ongoing magical effects (Caster Level check).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Displacement: Subject’s form appears to be 2 ft. away, granting a 50% miss chance. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Disrupting Weapon: Touched melee weapon gains the power to instantly destroy undead (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Divination: Caster receives a cryptic rhyme or omen regarding a specific action taken in the next week.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Divine Favor: Caster gains a +1 luck bonus on attack and damage rolls per 3 levels (max +3).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Divine Power: Caster’s BAB becomes equal to level; gains +6 Strength and 1 temporary hp/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dominate Animal: Caster guides an animal via a telepathic link (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dominate Monster: As Dominate Person, but affects any creature type.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dominate Person: Caster controls a humanoid telepathically (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Doom: Target is filled with dread, becoming shaken (–2 on attacks, saves, and checks).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dragon's Breath: Caster gains a breath weapon (cone or line) dealing 1d6/level of a specific energy type.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dread Gaze: Caster gains a gaze attack that causes targets to become shaken or frightened (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dream: Caster sends a messenger to deliver a dream-message to a sleeping subject.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Dust of Twilight: 10-ft. radius burst of shadows douses nonmagical lights and potentially fatigues creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Eagle's Splendor: Subject gains +4 to Charisma for 1 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ear-Piercing Scream: Target takes 1d6 sonic damage/2 levels (max 5d6) and is dazed for 1 round (Fortitude half/negates stun).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Earthquake: Intense tremor causes structures to collapse and creates fissures (Reflex to avoid falling).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Elemental Body I-IV: Note: Normalizing to 3.5E Polymorph; Caster takes the form of a Small to Huge Elemental.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Elemental Swarm: Summons a succession of elementals over several rounds to fight.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Elude Terrains: Subject gains a +4 bonus on initiative and Stealth in a specific terrain type.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Enervation: Pointy black ray deals 1d4 negative levels for 1 hour/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Enlarge Person: Subject’s size increases by one category; gains +2 Strength, –2 Dexterity, and –1 to AC/attacks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Entangle: Plants in a 40-ft. radius entwine around creatures, making them entangled (Reflex negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Enthrall: Caster’s speech captivates an audience, making them indifferent for as long as the caster speaks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Entropic Shield: A field of chaotic energy surrounds the caster, granting a 20% miss chance against ranged attacks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Erase: Caster removes magical or mundane writing from a scroll, book, or surface.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ethereal Jaunt: Caster becomes ethereal for 1 round/level, allowing movement through solid objects.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Etherealness: As Ethereal Jaunt, but affects the caster and one subject/3 levels for 1 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Euphoric Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of sparkling gas fascinates and dazes creatures within (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Evard’s Black Tentacles: Note: Standardized under "B" as Black Tentacles.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Exhaustion: Note: See Ray of Exhaustion.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Expeditious Retreat: Caster’s base land speed increases by 30 ft. for 1 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Explosive Runes: Inscribes a rune that deals 6d6 force damage to anyone reading it (no save for the reader).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Eyebite: Caster’s gaze can sicken, panic, or comatose targets (one target/round).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fabricate: Transforms raw materials into a finished product (e.g., iron into a sword).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Faerie Fire: Outlines creatures in a pale glow, negating concealment from blur or invisibility.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, False Alibi: Target believes a false memory of a specific event they participated in (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, False Life: Caster gains 1d10 + 1/level (max +10) temporary hit points for 1 hour/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, False Vision: Creates an illusory scene within a 20-ft. radius that fools any scrying attempt.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fear: 60-ft. cone causes creatures to become panicked for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Feather Fall: Subject falls slowly (60 ft./round), taking no damage upon landing (Immediate Action).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Feather Step: Subject ignores difficult terrain and can take 5-ft. steps in it for 10 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Feeblemind: Target’s Intelligence and Charisma scores drop to 1 (Will negates; –4 penalty if target is a caster).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Festive Hall: Creates an illusory feast that fascinates creatures and provides a +2 morale bonus on saves.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fiery Body: Caster becomes living fire, gaining fire immunity, a 1d6 fire touch attack, and fly speed 40 ft.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Find the Path: Subject finds the shortest, most direct physical route to a specified destination.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Find Traps: Caster gains the Trapfinding ability and a +1/2 level bonus on Search checks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Finger of Death: Deals 10 damage/level (max 100); if the target saves, it takes 3d6 + 1/level (Fortitude partial). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fins to Feet: Transforms a creature's fins or flippers into legs and feet, allowing land movement.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fireball: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 10d6); Reflex half. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fire Seeds: Creates 4 explosive acorns (1d6/level) or 8 holly berries (1d8 + 1/level).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fire Shield: Wreathes caster in "warm" or "chill" flames; deals 1d6+1/level damage to melee attackers.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fire Snake: Creates a 5-ft. wide line of fire (60 ft. long) that can curve to hit specific targets; deals 1d6/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fire Storm: Two 10-ft. cubes/level deal 1d6 fire damage/level (max 20d6).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fire Trap: Object deals 1d4 + 1/level fire damage when opened by anyone other than the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Flare: Dazzles one creature (–1 on attack rolls) for 1 minute; Fortitude negates.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Flare Burst: As Flare, but affects all creatures in a 10-ft. radius burst.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Flesh to Stone: Target is permanently transformed into a statue (Fortitude negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Floating Disk: Creates a plane of force that follows the caster and carries up to 100 lbs./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fly: Subject gains a fly speed of 60 ft. (Good) for 1 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fog Cloud: Creates a 20-ft. radius of thick fog, granting concealment (20%) or total concealment (50%).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Food into Fire: Caster transforms any food into an equal volume of alchemist's fire or Greek fire.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Forbid Action: Target is prohibited from taking one type of action (Attack, Cast, Move, etc.) (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Forcecage: Creates an immobile, invisible cubical cage or windowless cell of force (No Save).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Force Punch: Caster strikes a target for 1d4 force damage/level (max 10d4) and pushes them back.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Foresight: Caster receives a +2 insight bonus to AC and Reflex; never flat-footed.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Forest Friend: Plants in the area do not provide cover or difficult terrain penalties to the caster's allies.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Fox’s Cunning: Subject gains +4 to Intelligence for 1 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Freedom: Instantly frees a creature from any effect that restricts movement (Maze, Slow, etc.).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Freedom of Movement: Subject moves and attacks normally despite effects like Web, Hold Person, or being underwater.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Freezing Sphere: 10-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 15d6); instantly freezes water.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Frostbite: Touched target takes 1d6 + 1/level nonlethal cold damage and is fatigued (Fortitude half/negates fatigue).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Gaseous Form: Subject becomes translucent and misty, gaining DR 10/magic and fly speed 10 ft. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Gate: Creates a planar portal for travel or calls a specific extraplanar creature to serve. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Geas/Quest: Subject is magically compelled to perform a task or suffer penalties.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Gentle Repose: Preserves a corpse so that it does not decay, extending the time limit for resurrection.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ghoul Touch: Caster’s touch paralyzes a humanoid and causes it to emit a sickening stench.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Giant Form I-II: Caster takes the form of a Large or Huge Giant, gaining its reach and physical stats.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Glibness: Subject gains a +30 bonus on Bluff checks and can bypass magical truth-detection.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Glitterdust: 10-ft. radius cloud outlines invisible creatures and potentially blinds (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Globe of Invulnerability: Creates a 10-ft. radius sphere that excludes all 1st- through 4th-level spell effects.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Globe of Invulnerability, Lesser: As Globe of Invulnerability, but excludes 1st- through 3rd-level effects.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Glyph of Warding: Inscribes a magical trap that deals 1d8 damage/2 levels or stores a 3rd-level spell.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Glyph of Warding, Greater: As Glyph of Warding, but deals 1d8/level or stores a 6th-level spell.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Goodberry: 2d4 berries heal 1 hp each and provide nourishment for 24 hours.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Grease: 10-ft. square or object becomes slippery, causing creatures to fall or drop items. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Greater...: Note: Prefix; Pathfinder variants often normalize duration to 1 min./level for 3.5E compatibility.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Guiding Star: Caster always knows the direction and distance to a specific location marked by the spell.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Gust of Wind: 60-ft. line of strong wind knocks down Small creatures and disperses vapors.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hallow: Designates a site as holy, granting Magic Circle against Evil and a fixed spell effect.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Halt Undead: Renders up to three undead immobile for 1 round/level (Will negates for intelligent).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Harm: Deals 10 damage/level (max 150) to a living creature (Will half). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Haste: Allies gain an extra attack, +1 on attacks, +1 AC/Reflex, and +30 ft. speed. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Heal: Instantly cures 10 hp/level (max 150) and removes nearly all negative conditions. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Heat Metal: Makes metal so hot it deals 1d4 to 2d4 fire damage to those touching it.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Helping Hand: A ghostly hand finds a person and beckons them to follow it back to the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Heroism: Subject gains a +2 morale bonus on attack rolls, saves, and skill checks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hideous Laughter: Subject falls prone with laughter, unable to take actions for 1 round/level (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hold Animal: Paralyzes one animal for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hold Monster: Paralyzes any one living creature for 1 round/level (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hold Person: Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Holy Aura: Allies within 20 ft. gain +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against evil spells.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Holy Smite: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d8 damage/2 levels (max 5d8) and blinds evil creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Holy Sword: Touched weapon becomes a +5 holy weapon and emits a Magic Circle Against Evil.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Holy Word: Kills, paralyzes, blinds, or deafens non-good creatures based on HD (No Save).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Horrid Wilting: 30-ft. radius deals 1d6 damage/level (max 20d6) by evaporating moisture. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hypnotic Pattern: Twisting colors fascinate 2d4 + level HD of creatures (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Hypnotism: Gestures make 2d4 HD of creatures susceptible to a brief suggestion.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ice Storm: 20-ft. radius cylinder deals 3d6 bludgeoning and 2d6 cold damage.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Iconographic Display: Caster creates a 20-ft. illusory image that displays specific data or maps known to the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Identical Guest: Caster and a willing subject swap appearances perfectly; grants a +10 bonus on Disguise.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Identify: Determines the properties of a magic item; grants a +10 enhancement bonus on Appraise. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Illusory Script: Only specified readers can understand the message; others are confused for 1d6 hours.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Implosion: Caster collapses the target into itself, killing it instantly (1 target/round).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Imprisonment: Touched creature is permanently buried in a small sphere deep underground (No Save).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Incendiary Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of embers deals 4d6 fire damage/round and obscures vision.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Inflict Light Wounds: Touched target takes 1d8 + 1/level (max +5) damage (Will half). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Insanity: Subject is permanently affected by Confusion (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Invisibility: Subject is invisible for 1 min./level; ends if the subject attacks. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Invisibility, Greater: As Invisibility, but does not end if the subject attacks. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Invisibility Purge: Neutralizes all invisibility effects within a radius around the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Iron Body: Caster’s body becomes living iron, gaining DR 15/adamantine and multiple immunities.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Irresistible Dance: Touched target must dance wildly, losing its AC bonus and ability to take actions (No Save). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Joyful Rapture: Caster ends all emotion-based effects (fear, despair, etc.) on allies in a 30-ft. radius.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Jump: Subject gains a +10 to +30 enhancement bonus on Jump checks (based on level).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Keen Edge: Doubles the critical threat range of a piercing or slashing weapon. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Kinetic Charge: Subject can move up to their speed and make a single melee attack with a +2 bonus (Swift Action).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Knight’s Calling: Subject is compelled to move toward and attack the caster (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Knock: Magically opens stuck, barred, locked, or held doors or secret doors. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Know Direction: Caster instantly discerns the direction of north.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Legend Lore: Caster learns information about a person, place, or object (Casting Time: 1d4x10 min).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Levitate: Subject moves up or down as the caster directs (up to 20 ft./round).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Life Bubble: Subjects gain a shell of air that protects against vacuum, pressure, and inhaled toxins.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Light: Object shines like a torch (20-ft. radius) for 10 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Lightning Bolt: 120-ft. line of electricity deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6); Reflex half. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Limited Wish: Alters reality to duplicate any spell of 6th level or lower (costs 300 XP).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Locate Creature: Caster senses the direction of a specific creature within range.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Locate Object: Caster senses the direction of a specific object within range.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Lullaby: 10-ft. radius causes creatures to take a –2 penalty on Will saves and Listen checks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mage Armor: Grants subject +4 armor bonus to AC; force effect, works against incorporeal touches. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mage Hand: Caster can telekinetically move a non-magical object up to 5 lbs.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Magic Circle against Evil/Good/Law/Chaos: 10-ft. radius ward grants +2 AC, +2 saves, and prevents possession. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Magic Fang: One natural weapon of a touched creature gets +1 enhancement bonus on attack/damage.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Magic Jar: Caster’s soul enters a gem, allowing them to attempt to possess nearby creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Magic Missile: Fires 1 missile + 1 per two levels (max 5); each deals 1d4+1 force damage. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Magic Mouth: Object speaks a programmed message (up to 25 words) when a specific trigger occurs.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 enhancement bonus for 1 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Major Creation: Similar to Minor Creation, but can create mineral or metal objects (1 cu. ft./level) d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Major Image: Creates a visual, auditory, olfactory, and thermal illusion (requires concentration).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Make Whole: Repairs an object (including magic items) or a construct for 1d6 hp/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Malicious Spite: Target is filled with intense resentment toward a specific creature, taking penalties to aid or cooperate.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mark of Justice: Inscribes a permanent Bestow Curse that activates if the subject performs a specific action.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Maze: Traps subject in an extradimensional labyrinth; Intelligence check to escape. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Melf’s Acid Arrow: Ranged touch attack deals 2d4 acid damage for 1 round + 1 round per three levels.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mending: Repairs minor damage to a single object.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Message: Caster can whisper messages to subjects within range; they can reply in whispers.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Meteor Swarm: Four 2-ft. spheres deal 6d6 fire/bludgeoning damage each in a 40-ft. radius. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mind Blank: Subject is immune to all mind-affecting effects and divinations/scrying.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mind Fog: 20-ft. radius fog causes creatures to take a –10 penalty on Wisdom checks and Will saves.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Minor Creation: Caster creates one nonmagical, unattended object of vegetable matter.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Minor Image: Creates a static visual illusion with some sound.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Miraculous Mirror: Caster’s shield or blade reflects gaze attacks and rays back at the attacker.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mirror Image: Creates 1d4 + 1/3 levels (max 8) illusory duplicates that mimic the caster's actions. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Misdirection: Fools divination spells used on a creature or object, returning info for a decoy.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mislead: Caster becomes invisible and creates an illusory double that moves as directed.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mnemonic Enhancer: Caster prepares up to 3 additional levels of spells or "re-prepares" a cast spell.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Modify Memory: Caster changes 5 minutes of the subject's memory (Bard only).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Moment of Prescience: Caster gains a +1/level insight bonus (max +25) on a single attack roll, check, or save.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Monster Summoning I-IX: Note: Normalizing to 3.5 Summon Monster; Summons creatures from a list to fight. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mount: Summons a light horse or pony to serve as a mount for 2 hours/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Move Earth: Caster moves dirt, sand, or clay at a rate of 750 sq. ft. every 10 minutes.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Mud to Rock: Transforms a volume of mud into soft stone.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Natural Rhythm: Touched creature's iterative attacks gain a cumulative +1 bonus to damage for each consecutive hit in a single round. Paizo Official Store
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Nature’s Ally I-IX: Note: Normalizing to 3.5 Summon Nature's Ally; Summons animals or elementals to serve for 1 round/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Nature’s Exile: Subject is cursed so that all natural animals and plants are hostile or unhelpful (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Nauseating Trail: Caster leaves a trail of stinking fog in every square they exit; creatures in fog are nauseated.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Negative Energy Ray: Ray deals 1d6 negative energy damage/2 levels (max 5d6) to living; heals undead.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Neutralize Poison: Detoxifies a creature or object, curing current poison and granting immunity for 10 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Night Terrors: Targets in a 20-ft. radius are haunted by nightmares, taking 1d4 Wisdom damage/round (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Nightmare: Sends a hideous vision to a sleeping subject, dealing 1d10 damage and leaving them fatigued.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Nine Lives: Subject gains 9 "charges" to automatically succeed on a save, stabilize, or negate a critical hit.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Nondetection: Subject is hidden from all divination spells; requires a caster level check. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Obscure Object: Masks the location of an object from scrying and location-based divinations.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Obscuring Mist: Creates a 20-ft. radius of thick mist, granting concealment (20%) or total concealment (50%).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Old Salt’s Curse: Subject takes a –4 penalty on all skill checks while on land and is permanently sickened (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Oracle’s Burden: Subject suffers the penalties of the caster’s oracle curse without gaining the benefits (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Order’s Wrath: 20-ft. radius burst of lawful energy deals 1d8/2 levels damage and dazes chaotic creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Overwhelming Grief: Target is overcome with sorrow, falling prone and unable to take actions (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Owl’s Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wisdom for 1 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Passwall: Creates a 5-ft. by 8-ft. by 10-ft. passage through wooden, plaster, or stone walls.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Pass without Trace: Subject leaves no trail or scent behind; cannot be tracked by nonmagical means.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Path of Glory: Creates a 5-ft. square per level of glowing light; allies standing in squares heal 1 hp/round.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Phantasmal Killer: Creates an illusory image of the target’s greatest fear; target must save or die from fright. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Phantom Steed: Creates a quasi-real, horselike creature that can eventually fly and walk on water.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Phase Door: Creates an invisible, ethereal passage through a wall that only the caster can use.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Pillar of Life: Creates a 20-ft. pillar of positive energy that heals 2d8+1/level to living and damages undead.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Plane Shift: Teleports up to 8 subjects to another plane of existence (requires a specific tuning fork). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Plant Growth: Overgrows an area with plants, impeding movement or enriching agricultural yields. Paizo Official Store
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Play Dead: Target appears dead to all mundane and magical inspections; grants immunity to mind-affecting effects.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Poison: Touched target takes 1d10 Constitution damage, followed by another 1d10 after 1 minute (Fortitude negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Polar Ray: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 25d6) and 1d4 Dexterity drain.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Polymorph: Transforms a willing subject into another creature type (up to its own HD) for 1 min./level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Polymorph Any Object: As Polymorph, but can affect objects and has variable duration based on form similarity.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Polymorph, Greater: As Polymorph, but allows for larger or more powerful forms with additional abilities.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Pox of Rumors: Targets in a 20-ft. radius suffer a –4 penalty on Diplomacy and become suspected of a specific crime.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Power Word Blind: Blinds one creature with 200 hp or less (No Save). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Power Word Kill: Kills one creature with 100 hp or less instantly (No Save). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Power Word Stun: Stuns one creature with 150 hp or less (No Save). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Pox Oracles: Target is afflicted with a chosen oracle's curse (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Prayer: Allies gain a +1 luck bonus on rolls; enemies take a –1 penalty.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Prediction of Failure: Target takes a –2 penalty on attacks, saves, and checks for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Primal Scream: Caster ends all paralyzing or stunning effects on themselves and allies in a 30-ft. radius.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Prismatic Ray: Fires a single ray that deals a random color/effect to one target.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Prismatic Sphere: Creates an immobile multicolored sphere that provides total protection. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Prismatic Spray: 60-ft. cone of multicolored light strikes targets with random effects. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Prismatic Wall: Creates a vertical multicolored plane that functions like a Prismatic Sphere.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Produce Flame: Creates a small flame in hand for light or as a 1d6 + 1/level touch attack.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Programmed Image: Creates an illusory scene that triggers on a specific event.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Project Image: Caster creates an illusory double to see, hear, and cast spells through.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Protection from Arrows: Subject gains DR 10/magic against ranged weapons.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Protection from Energy: Subject gains immunity to 12 points of damage/level from a specific energy type. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Protection from Spells: Subject gains a +8 resistance bonus on saves against spells and spell-like abilities.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Purify Food and Drink: Makes spoiled or poisonous food and water safe for consumption. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Pyrotechnics: Transforms a fire source into a blinding flash of light or a choking cloud of smoke.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Quench: Extinguishes nonmagical fires or deals 1d6 damage/level to fire-subtype creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Rage: Subjects gain +2 Strength/Constitution and +1 morale bonus on Will saves, but –2 AC. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Rainbow Pattern: Fascinates 24 HD of creatures with a shifting pattern of colors (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Raise Dead: Restores life to a deceased creature (dead up to 1 day/level); subject loses one level. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ray of Enfeeblement: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Strength penalty (max 1d6+5).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ray of Exhaustion: Ray makes the target exhausted; if it saves, it is merely fatigued. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ray of Frost: Ray deals 1d3 cold damage (Evocation cantrip).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ray of Sickening: Ray causes the target to become sickened for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Read Magic: Caster can read magical inscriptions that would otherwise be unintelligible.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Reduce Person: Subject’s size decreases by one category; gains +2 Dexterity, –2 Strength. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Regenerate: Subject’s severed limbs grow back, and they heal 4d8 + 1/level (max +35).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Reincarnate: Brings a dead creature back to life in a new, randomly determined body. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Relaxing Fog: 20-ft. radius fog causes creatures to take a –2 penalty on attack rolls and saves against fear.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Remove Blindness/Deafness: Cures a subject of magical or mundane blindness or deafness.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Remove Curse: Frees a person or object from a curse (Caster Level check vs. Curse DC). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Remove Disease: Cures all diseases the subject is currently suffering from.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Remove Fear: Grants a +4 morale bonus against fear or suppresses existing fear effects.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Remove Paralysis: Frees subjects from paralyzing effects or the Hold Person spell.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Repel Vermin: Insects and vermin stay 10 ft. away from the caster (Will negates for 2+ HD).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Repel Wood: Waves of energy push wooden objects (including weapons) away from the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Repulsion: Creatures cannot approach the caster within a specific radius (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Resilient Sphere: Creates a globe of force that traps a creature or protects the caster. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Resist Energy: Subject gains energy resistance 10, 20, or 30 against a specific type. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Restoration: Cures temporary ability damage and restores one permanent ability drain; removes fatigue/exhaustion. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Restoration, Greater: As Restoration, but cures all permanent ability drain and negative levels (Material: 500gp diamond dust).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Restoration, Lesser: Cures 1d4 temporary ability damage to a single score. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Resurrection: Restores life (dead up to 10 years/level); subject loses one level (Material: 10,000gp diamond). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Reverse Gravity: Objects and creatures in a 30-ft. radius "fall" upward for 1 round/level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Ride the Lightning: Caster becomes a bolt of electricity, traveling 30 ft./level and dealing 10d6 damage to those in the path.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Righteous Might: Caster grows one size category, gaining +4 Str, +2 Con, +2 natural armor, and DR 5/evil (or good). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Rope Trick: Up to 8 creatures can hide in an extradimensional space at the end of a rope.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Rusting Grasp: Caster's touch corrodes iron and alloys, potentially destroying weapons or armor.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sanctuary: Opponents must pass a Will save to attack the subject; ends if subject attacks.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Scintillating Pattern: Twisting colors confuse, stun, or unconsciousness based on target HD (No Save).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Scorching Ray: Fires one or more rays (max 3) dealing 4d6 fire damage each. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Scrine: Caster learns the target's current location and a single specific secret they are currently thinking of.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Scry: Caster sees and hears a creature at any distance (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Scry, Greater: As Scry, but with longer duration and allows casting certain spells through the sensor.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sculpt Sound: Changes the sounds made by creatures or objects into other sounds (or silence).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Searing Light: Ray of divine light deals 1d8 damage/2 levels (max 5d8); deals more to undead.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Secret Chest: Hides a chest on the Ethereal Plane, retrievable at will (Material: 5,000gp focus).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Secret Page: Changes the contents of a page to appear as something else until a keyword is spoken.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, See Invisibility: Caster sees invisible and ethereal creatures as if they were visible. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Seeming: Changes the appearance of one person per two levels.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sending: Caster delivers a message of 25 words or less to a subject on any plane; subject can reply.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sepia Snake Sigil: A written rune transforms into a force-snake that immobilizes the reader.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sequester: Makes an object or willing creature invisible and undetectable by divination.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shadow Conjuration: Mimics a conjuration (summoning or creation) spell of 3rd level or lower; 20% real. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shadow Evocation: Mimics an evocation spell of 4th level or lower; 20% real if save succeeds. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shadow Evocation, Greater: Mimics evocation spells of 7th level or lower; 60% real if save succeeds.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shadow Walk: Caster and allies travel rapidly (50 miles/hour) through the Edge of Shadow.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shambler: Summons 1d4+2 shambling mounds to guard an area or attack (lasts 7 days).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shapechange: Subject takes the form of any creature up to 25 HD, gaining all abilities. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Share Senses: Caster can see, hear, and smell through the senses of their familiar or animal companion.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shatter: 5-ft. radius burst or targeted vibration destroys nonmagical objects or damages crystalline creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shield: Invisible disk of force provides a +4 shield bonus to AC and negates Magic Missile. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shield of Faith: Subject gains a +2 deflection bonus to AC (improves with level, max +5).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shield of Law: Allies within 20 ft. gain +4 AC, +4 resistance, and SR 25 against chaotic spells.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shield Other: Caster takes half the damage dealt to a touched ally; grants ally +1 AC/Saves.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shillelagh: Touched nonmagical club or quarterstaff deals damage as if two sizes larger.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shocking Grasp: Caster’s touch deals 1d6 electricity damage/level (max 5d6). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shout: 30-ft. cone deals 5d6 sonic damage and deafens for 2d6 rounds.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shout, Greater: 60-ft. cone deals 1d6 sonic damage/level (max 20d6) and stuns for 1 round.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Shrink Item: Touched nonmagical object shrinks to 1/16th size and 1/4000th weight.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Silence: Creates an immobile 20-ft. radius sphere of total silence; prevents verbal spellcasting. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Silent Image: Creates a purely visual illusion within range.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Simulacrum: Creates a partially real illusory double of a creature with half HD and abilities.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Slay Living: Touched subject takes 12d6 + 1/level damage; kills if reduced to 0 hp.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sleep: 10-ft. radius burst puts 4 HD of creatures into a comatose slumber. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sleet Storm: 40-ft. radius blocks vision and makes ground slippery (Balance check required).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Slow: Up to one subject/level can take only one move or standard action/round. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Soften Earth and Stone: Turns wet earth to mud, dry earth to sand, or stone to clay.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Solid Fog: 20-ft. radius fog obscures all sight and reduces movement speed to 5 ft.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Song of Discord: Subjects within a 20-ft. radius have a 50% chance each round to attack the nearest ally. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Soul Bind: Traps the soul of a newly dead creature in a gem to prevent resurrection.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sound Burst: 10-ft. radius burst deals 1d8 sonic damage and potentially stuns. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Speak with Animals: Caster can comprehend and communicate with animals for 1 min./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Speak with Dead: Caster asks a corpse up to one question per two levels.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Speak with Plants: Caster can communicate with normal plants and plant creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spectral Hand: Creates a ghostly hand that delivers touch-range spells for the caster.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spell Immunity: Subject is immune to one specific spell of 4th level or lower per four levels.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spell Resistance: Subject gains Spell Resistance (SR) equal to 12 + caster level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spell Turning: Spells targeted at the caster are reflected back at the original caster (1d4+6 levels).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spider Climb: Subject can climb vertical surfaces and ceilings at half speed.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spike Growth: Ground in a 20-ft. radius sprouts sharp thorns; movement deals 1d4 damage.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spike Stones: Ground in a 20-ft. radius transforms into sharp stone spikes; deals 1d8 damage per 5 ft. moved.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Spiritual Weapon: Creates a weapon of force that attacks a designated target (1d8 + 1/3 levels).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Statue: Subject can become as hard as stone at will, gaining hardness 8.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Stinking Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of nauseating vapors; creatures within are nauseated. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Stone Shape: Caster reshapes a volume of stone into any form they desire.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Stoneskin: Subject gains DR 10/adamantine (max 10 points/level, max 150). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Stone Tell: Caster can communicate with natural or worked stone to learn of past events.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Stone to Flesh: Restores a petrified creature to its normal state.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Storm of Vengeance: Creates a storm cloud dealing acid, electricity, and bludgeoning damage over several rounds.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Suggestion: Caster influences a creature to perform a specific course of action (Will negates). d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Suggestion, Mass: As Suggestion, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sunbeam: Caster beams intensely bright light; deals 4d6 damage and blinds.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sunburst: 80-ft. radius burst deals 6d6 damage and permanently blinds. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Death: A triggerable rune that kills all creatures with 60 hp or less in a 60-ft. radius. Paizo Store
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Fear: A rune that causes creatures to become panicked (Will negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Insanity: A rune that permanently affects creatures with Insanity. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Pain: A rune that causes creatures to take a –4 penalty on attacks and checks due to pain.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Persuasion: A rune that charms creatures into regarding the caster as a friend.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Sleep: A rune that puts creatures of 10 HD or less into a catatonic slumber.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Stunning: A rune that stuns creatures for 1d6 rounds.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Symbol of Weakness: A rune that deals 3d6 Strength damage to creatures.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sympathetic Vibration: Caster creates a vibration in a structure that deals 2d10 damage per round.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Sympathy: Objects or locations attract a specific type of intelligent creature.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Telekinesis: Moves objects or creatures (25 lbs./level), hurls items, or performs combat maneuvers. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Telepathic Bond: Caster and allies share a mental link, allowing telepathic communication.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Teleport: Instantly transports the caster and one person/3 levels to a known destination. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Teleportation Circle: Inscribes a 5-ft. radius circle that teleports any creature stepping into it.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Teleport, Greater: As Teleport, but with no range limit and no chance of arriving off-target.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Teleport Object: As Teleport, but affects a single unattended object of up to 50 lbs./level.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Temporal Stasis: Touched subject is placed into a state of suspended animation (No Save).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Time Stop: Caster acts freely for 1d4+1 rounds while the rest of the world is frozen. d20PFSRD
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Tongues: Subject can speak and understand the languages of any intelligent creature.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Touch of Fatigue: Touched target becomes fatigued for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Touch of Idiocy: Touched target takes 1d6 penalty to Int, Wis, and Cha (min 1).
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Transformation: Caster gains +4 Str, Dex, and Con; BAB becomes equal to level; loses spellcasting.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Transport via Plants: Caster and allies step into one plant and exit from another of the same species.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Tree Shape: Caster transforms into a normal tree or shrub.
Paizo, Pathfinder Core, Tree Stride: Caster can step into one tree and move to another of the same type nearby.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Abyssal Form: Caster takes on a demonic aspect, gaining DR 10/cold iron and a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength. Necromancer Games
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Acid Bolt: A bolt of acid deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) to a single target (No SR).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Agony: Target is wracked with pain, taking a –4 penalty on attacks, saves, and checks (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Air Bubble: Creates a 5-ft. radius sphere of fresh air that follows the caster underwater or in vacuum.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Alchemical Blast: Caster hurls a glob of magical liquid that explodes for 1d6 damage/level (random energy type).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Alter Liquid: Transforms one type of non-magical liquid into another (e.g., water into wine or oil).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Amoebic Form: Subject becomes malleable, gaining immunity to critical hits and ability to pass through 1-inch cracks.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Ancestral Ghost: Summons a spectral ancestor to provide advice (Knowledge check bonus) or fight as a Shadow.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Animal Spy: Caster can see and hear through the senses of a touched animal for 1 hour/level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Animate Blood: Caster’s spilled blood forms a Small elemental-like construct that attacks enemies.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Animate Objects, Lesser: Animates a single Tiny or Small object to follow simple commands.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Arcane Eye, Greater: As Arcane Eye, but the sensor can pass through solid barriers up to 1 ft. thick.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Armor of Bone: Creates a suit of interlocking bones providing a +6 armor bonus and DR 5/bludgeoning.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Arrow of Bone: Note: Necromancer variant; Imbues an arrow with death energy; target must save or die (Fortitude partial).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Aspect of the Beast: Caster gains the natural attacks and scent ability of a chosen predatory animal.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Aura of Death: 20-ft. radius aura deals 1d6 negative energy damage/round to all living creatures.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Baleful Blast: 20-ft. radius explosion deals 1d6/level damage and potentially sickens (Fortitude half).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Banshee’s Wail, Lesser: 30-ft. cone of sound deals 1d6/level sonic damage and panics (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Battle Trance: Subject gains a +4 morale bonus to Str/Con and immunity to fear, but cannot cast spells.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Binding Earth: Targets in a 20-ft. radius are entangled as the ground turns to thick sludge.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Black Blade: Creates a blade of negative energy that deals 1d8 + 1/level damage and heals the caster.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Bleed: Touched target takes 1d4 bleed damage/round until treated with a DC 15 Heal check.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Blindness, Greater: As Blindness, but affects all creatures in a 20-ft. radius (Fortitude negates).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Blood Bath: Caster is wreathed in blood; anyone striking them in melee takes 1d6 acid damage.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Bone Shards: 15-ft. cone of sharp bone fragments deals 1d6/level piercing damage (max 5d6).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Call the Grave: Caster summons 1d4 skeletons or zombies from the ground to serve for 1 round/level. Frog God Games / Necromancer
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Caustic Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud deals 1d6 acid damage/round and obscures vision as Fog Cloud.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Chains of Torment: Spectral chains grapple a target (CMB = CL + casting mod) and deal 1d6 nonlethal damage/round.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Chill of the Grave, Greater: Ray deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 15d6) and target is paralyzed (Fortitude partial).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Circle of Death, Lesser: As Circle of Death, but kills 1d4 HD/level (max 10 HD) in a 20-ft. radius.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Claws of the Beast: Caster’s hands become claws dealing 1d6 damage (Medium) and allowing a rend attack.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Cloak of Shadow: Caster gains total concealment in dim light and a +4 resistance bonus on saves vs. light/fire.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Cold Fog: 20-ft. radius fog slows movement and deals 2d6 cold damage per round.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Consumption: Caster touches a target to drain 1d4 Constitution; caster gains 5 temporary hp per point drained.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Corrode Magic: Targeted dispel that reduces the enhancement bonus of a magic item by 1 for 1 hour.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Corrosive Touch, Greater: Touched target takes 1d8/level acid damage (max 15d8) and ignores 10 points of hardness.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Crimson Binding: Target's own blood hardens into internal restraints, paralyzing them (Fortitude negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Crushing Grip, Lesser: Spectral hand grapples a target with a +5 bonus; target is considered entangled.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Curse of the Ages: Target ages 1d10 years; takes associated physical penalties but gains no mental bonuses.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Darkbolt, Greater: Caster fires 1 ray/3 levels (max 5); each deals 2d8 damage and stuns (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Darkness, Greater: Object sheds total darkness (no non-magical light) in a 60-ft. radius.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Death’s Call, Greater: All living creatures with 25 hp or less in a 30-ft. radius must save or die.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Decelerate: Target's speed is halved and it cannot take move actions and standard actions in the same round.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Devour Soul: Touched target with 50 hp or less dies; caster gains 2d6 temporary hit points/HD of the target.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Dig: Caster magically excavates a 10-ft. cube of earth or sand per round (Concentration).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Dirge of the Damned: 30-ft. radius of discordant sound shakes enemies and grants undead +2 to attacks.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Disintegrate, Lesser: Green ray deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6); target is partially turned to dust.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Divine Hammer, Greater: Creates a +3 warhammer of force dealing 2d6 + 1/level damage.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Dragon’s Breath, Lesser: Caster gains a 15-ft. cone breath weapon dealing 1d6/level (max 5d6) of a chosen energy.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Drown, Lesser: Caster fills target's lungs with water; target is nauseated and takes 1d6 damage/round.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Earthen Grasp: A hand of soil rises to grapple a target with a bonus equal to Caster Level + 5. Frog God Games
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Earth Hammer: Touched weapon deals +1d6 bludgeoning damage and ignores DR/adamantine.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Echoes of the Past: Caster views the events that transpired in their current location up to 1 day/level ago.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Ebon Bindings: Caster creates manacles of shadow that prevent the target from using any teleportation.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Eldritch Bolt: Bolt of pure magic deals 1d4 damage/level; ignores all energy resistances and DR.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Elemental Aegis: Caster gains resistance 20 against one element and deals 1d6 of that element to melee attackers.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Enslumber: Subject falls into a magical sleep that lasts for 1 day/level (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Entomb: Caster traps the subject in a block of ice or earth, dealing 1d6 damage/level and suffocating it.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Essence of the Earth: Caster gains +4 natural armor and DR 5/adamantine for 1 min./level.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Eternal Slumber: Subject is frozen in time, appearing dead but preserved indefinitely (No Save).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Eye of the Storm: Creates a 20-ft. radius of calm air amidst any magical or mundane storm.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Face of the Beast: Target’s face becomes a monstrous visage, granting a +4 bonus to Intimidate.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Fang of the Serpent: Touched weapon deals +1d6 acid damage and 1 point of Con damage.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Feast of Ashes: Target cannot gain nourishment from food or water, becoming exhausted within 24 hours.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Feral Senses: Caster gains the Scent ability and low-light vision for 1 hour/level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Fiery Wrath: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 fire damage/2 levels (max 10d6).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Flesh to Glass: Target is permanently transformed into fragile glass (Fortitude negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Flowing Bones: Subject’s skeletal structure becomes fluid; can pass through 1-inch openings.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Font of Life: Caster creates a pool of water that heals 2d8+5 hp to anyone drinking from it.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Frostbite: Touched target takes 1d6 cold damage/level and 1d4 Dexterity damage.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Gaze of the Gorgon: Caster’s gaze turns one creature to stone for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Ghost Ship: Creates an illusory ship that can sail over any terrain (land or sea) for 1 hour/level.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Glacial Wall: Creates a wall of supernatural ice that deals 2d6 cold damage to those within 10 ft.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Grasp of the Grave: Skeletal hands erupt from the ground, grappling and dealing 1d6 negative energy damage/round.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Great Blast: 60-ft. cone deals 1d8/level force damage and stuns targets (Reflex half).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Hammer of the Gods: Creates a massive spectral hammer that deals 1d8/level force damage and stuns for 1 round. Frog God Games
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Hand of Fate: Caster gains a +10 luck bonus on a single d20 roll (Immediate Action).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Harmful Vapor: 20-ft. radius cloud of acidic gas deals 1d6 damage/round and potentially nauseates.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Heart of the Mountain: Caster gains DR 10/adamantine and becomes immune to critical hits for 1 min./level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Heart of the Sea: Subject can move through water without penalty and gains a +4 bonus on saves against aquatic hazards.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Heat Wave: 30-ft. radius burst deals 1d6 fire damage/level and causes targets to become fatigued.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Hell's Gate: Creates a temporary portal to a lower plane; 1d3 Lemures emerge each round to attack.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Holy Fire: Touched weapon deals +1d6 fire damage and +2d6 against undead or evil outsiders.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Horrid Curse: Target’s appearance becomes monstrous; –6 penalty to Charisma and –4 to Diplomacy/Bluff.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Hunter’s Mark: Caster gains a +10 bonus on Survival checks to track one specific creature and +2 on attacks against it.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Ice Spear: Creates a spear of ice that deals 2d6 cold and 2d6 piercing damage as a ranged touch attack.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Icy Grip: Touched target takes 1d6 cold damage/level and is entangled in frost for 1 round/level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Illusory Army: Creates 1d4 + 1/level illusory soldiers that provide flanking and take attacks of opportunity.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Immolate: Target bursts into flames, taking 1d6 fire damage/level (max 10d6) and potentially igniting.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Inevitable Doom: Target takes 1d6 damage per round; damage cannot be healed while spell lasts.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Inferno: Creates a 20-ft. radius of intense heat dealing 6d6 fire damage/round (Concentration).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Iron Skin: Subject gains +8 natural armor but takes a –4 penalty to Dexterity.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Jade Shield: Protects subject from poison and disease; grants +4 resistance bonus against transformation.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Judgment: Caster determines the alignment and greatest sin of one target within 30 ft.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Kiss of the Succubus: Touched target is charmed and takes 1d4 Wisdom drain per round of contact.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Knight’s Honor: Subject gains a +4 morale bonus on saves against fear and charm effects.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Landstride: Caster moves through any natural terrain (swamp, forest, desert) at full speed.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Lash of the Abyss: Creates a whip of shadow that deals 1d8 + 1/level damage and drains 1 point of Strength on a hit.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Life-Bond: Two subjects share hit points; whenever one takes damage, it is divided equally between both.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Light of the Soul: Caster sheds bright light (60-ft.) that deals 1d6 damage/round to undead and grants +2 on saves vs. fear.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Lightning Lash: Creates a 15-ft. whip of electricity dealing 1d6 + 1/level damage; can be used to trip with a +4 bonus. Frog God Games Store
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Liquid Fire: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6/level fire damage; target continues to take 1d6 damage/round until extinguished.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Locate Water: Caster instantly knows the distance and direction to the largest body of water within 1 mile/level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Maddening Whispers: Target hears discordant voices, taking 1d4 Wisdom damage/round and becoming confused (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Maelstrom: Creates a 40-ft. radius whirlpool in water, drawing in ships and creatures (deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Mantle of Egregious Might: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to all six ability scores for 1 round/level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Mantle of Vengeance: Caster gains SR 20; any spell resisted by the SR is reflected back at the original caster.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Mark of the Outcast: Target is branded with a visible rune; all Diplomacy/Bluff checks against the target gain a +10 bonus.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Mask of Death: Subject’s appearance becomes skeletal; grants immunity to fear and +4 on Intimidate.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Master of the Wild: Caster gains the ability to command any animal of 4 HD or less (no save for animals).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Memory’s End: Target permanently loses all memory of a specific event or person (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Mind’s Eye: Caster gains a +10 insight bonus on Search, Spot, and Sense Motive for 10 min./level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Mirror of Fate: Caster views one possible outcome of a future event (Divination).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Mist of Mourning: 20-ft. radius fog deals 1d4 Wisdom damage/round to all non-undead (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Molten Metal: Touched metal object melts into liquid; deals 2d6 fire damage to anyone holding or wearing it.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Moonbeam: 5-ft. radius beam of silver light deals 1d6/level damage to lycanthropes.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Morality’s End: Target’s alignment temporarily shifts to Neutral; loses all alignment-based class features (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Mystic Shield: Caster is immune to all spells of 3rd level or lower; cannot be bypassed by SR.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Nature’s Bounty: Touched plant provides enough food to nourish one person per level for 24 hours.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Nature’s Wrath: Plants in a 60-ft. radius attack enemies (deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage/round).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Necrotic Touch: Touched target takes 1d6 negative energy damage/level and 1d4 Strength damage.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Night’s Embrace: Caster becomes invisible while in any area of dim light or darkness.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Nightmare’s Grip: Target is paralyzed by terrifying hallucinations for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Obsidian Bolt: Ray of volcanic glass deals 1d8/level damage; target takes 1d4 bleed damage for 3 rounds.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Ocean’s Call: Caster summons a CR-appropriate aquatic creature from the nearest body of water to serve.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Orb of Obsidian: Creates a 5-ft. sphere of glass that the caster can roll into enemies for 6d6 bludgeoning damage. Frog God Games
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Pain: Target is wracked with agony, taking a –4 penalty on attacks, saves, and checks (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Paralyzing Blast: 30-ft. cone of energy paralyzes all living creatures for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Parting the Veil: Caster can see and speak with incorporeal undead or spirits for 1 min./level.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Petrifying Gaze: Caster’s eyes turn targets to stone permanently (Fortitude negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Pillar of Fire: Creates a 10-ft. wide, 30-ft. high cylinder of flame dealing 1d6/level fire damage.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Plague of Flies: Summons a swarm of biting flies that deals 1d6 damage/round and sickens those within.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Power Word Fear: Target with 100 hp or less becomes panicked for 1d4 rounds (No Save).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Purify: Removes all toxins and magical impurities from a 10-ft. cube of matter.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Quicksand: Transforms a 20-ft. radius of earth into deep quicksand; creatures must swim or sink.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Ray of Rust: Ray destroys 1d6 lbs. of nonmagical iron or alloy per level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Reaper’s Scythe: Creates a blade of negative energy that deals 2d6 + 1/level damage and heals the caster.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Rite of Passage: Caster and allies step through a "shadow path," traveling 10 miles per level instantly.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Scales of the Serpent: Subject gains a +4 natural armor bonus and resistance to poison.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Sea’s Embrace: Subject breathes water and takes no damage from crushing oceanic pressure.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Shadow’s Edge: Touched weapon gains the Ghost Touch property and deals +1d6 cold damage.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Shield of the Titan: Creates a 10-ft. wall of force that provides total cover against one direction.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Shockwave: Caster slams the ground, dealing 1d6/level bludgeoning damage and knocking adjacent targets prone.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Smite: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 damage per level (max 10d6) to a target of opposing alignment.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Soul’s Window: Caster views the subject's true alignment and most recent strong emotion (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Spirit’s Journey: Caster’s soul leaves their body to scout as an invisible sensor for 1 min./level.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Torrent: Creates a 60-ft. line of high-pressure water dealing 1d6/level damage and bull rushing targets.
Necromancer Games, Eldritch Sorcery, Voice of the Titan: Caster’s voice carries for miles and can daze all creatures within 60 ft. (Will negates).
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Wall of Magma: Creates a vertical wall of molten rock dealing 10d6 fire damage to those passing through.
Necromancer Games, Book of Lost Spells, Zone of Detection: Caster is alerted to the exact location of any creature entering a 60-ft. radius area.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Astral Navigation: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on Survival and Knowledge (Geography) checks while under a clear night sky. Mongoose Publishing
Mongoose, Star Magic, Black Hole: Creates a 5-ft. singularity; all Medium or smaller creatures within 20 ft. are pulled toward it and take 1d6/level crushing damage.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Celestial Alignment: Subject gains a +1 luck bonus on all d20 rolls per 4 caster levels (max +5) for 1 round/level.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Comet Tail: A 60-ft. line of icy crystals deals 1d6 cold and 1d6 piercing damage per level (max 10d6 each).
Mongoose, Star Magic, Cosmic Fire: Targeted ray deals 1d8/level fire damage; ignores the first 10 points of Fire Resistance.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Falling Star: A mote of light strikes a target for 1d10/level force damage and blinds for 1d4 rounds (Reflex half/negates blind).
Mongoose, Star Magic, Gravity Well: Increases the weight of all objects and creatures in a 20-ft. radius by five; speed is halved and Jump/Tumble is impossible.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Meteor Shower, Lesser: Three small meteors deal 2d6 fire and 2d6 bludgeoning damage each to different targets.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Moonrise: Creates a 40-ft. radius of "moonlight" that reveals all invisible or polymorphed creatures.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Nebula Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud of glowing gas dazes all creatures within (Will negates) and grants concealment.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Nova: Caster explodes in a 30-ft. radius burst of light dealing 1d6/level fire and 1d6/level sonic damage; caster is staggered for 1 round.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Orbit: Caster creates 1d4+1 small force spheres that rotate around them, providing a +1 deflection bonus each and intercepting magic missiles.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Solar Flare: 30-ft. cone of intense heat and light deals 1d6/level fire damage and permanently blinds (Fortitude half/negates blind).
Mongoose, Star Magic, Starfall: Calls down a rain of tiny stars in a 40-ft. radius dealing 1d4 force damage per level (No Save).
Mongoose, Star Magic, Starlight Vision: Subject gains darkvision 120 ft. and can see perfectly through magical darkness for 1 hour/level.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Stellar Wind: A gust of cold, thin air pushes creatures 20 ft. back and deals 1d6 cold damage/level.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Vacuum: Removes air from a 10-ft. radius; creatures must hold their breath or begin suffocating immediately.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Void Shield: Caster gains a +6 deflection bonus to AC and is immune to all "Light" and "Shadow" descriptor spells.
Mongoose, Star Magic, Wandering Star: Creates a floating mote of light that follows a specific creature, granting a +4 bonus on all attacks against it.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Components, Blood Component: Caster can substitute 1 hp per spell level to ignore the material component cost of a spell.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Components, Soul Focus: Caster binds a portion of their soul to a gem, gaining a +2 bonus to Caster Level for one specific school.
Mongoose, Encyclopaedia Arcane: Tomes, Living Book: Transforms a spellbook into a Small construct that can fly and read its own spells aloud for the caster.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Mana Burn: Target loses its highest-level prepared spell or spell slot and takes 1d6 damage per spell level lost.
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Spell Siphon: Caster steals a temporary buff from a target and applies it to themselves (Caster Level check vs. Spell DC).
Mongoose, Ultimate Arcane, Weave Warp: Creates a 30-ft. radius area where all spellcasting requires a Concentration check (DC 15 + Spell Level) or fails.
Troll Lord, C&C, Gaseous Form: Subject becomes a misty cloud, gaining DR 10/magic and a fly speed of 10 ft. (Perfect). Troll Lord Games
Troll Lord, C&C, Gate: Creates a planar portal for travel or calls a specific extraplanar creature to serve.
Troll Lord, C&C, Geas/Quest: Subject is magically compelled to perform a task or suffer a –2 penalty to all ability scores.
Troll Lord, C&C, Globe of Invulnerability: Creates an immobile 10-ft. sphere that excludes all 1st- through 4th-level spell effects.
Troll Lord, C&C, Glyph of Warding: Inscribes a magical trap that deals 1d8 damage/2 levels or stores a 3rd-level spell.
Troll Lord, C&C, Grease: 10-ft. square or object becomes slippery, causing creatures to fall or drop items (Reflex negates).
Troll Lord, C&C, Hallow: Designates a site as holy, granting Magic Circle against Evil and a fixed spell effect.
Troll Lord, C&C, Harm: Deals 10 damage/level (max 150) to a living creature (Will half).
Troll Lord, C&C, Haste: Allies within 30 ft. gain an extra attack, +1 on attacks, +1 AC/Reflex, and +30 ft. speed.
Troll Lord, C&C, Heal: Instantly cures 10 hp/level (max 150) and removes nearly all negative conditions.
Troll Lord, C&C, Heroes' Feast: Creates a magical banquet that grants temporary hp and immunity to poison/fear for 12 hours.
Troll Lord, C&C, Hold Monster: Paralyzes any one living creature for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Troll Lord, C&C, Hold Person: Paralyzes one humanoid for 1 round/level (Will negates).
Troll Lord, C&C, Holy Aura: Allies within 20 ft. gain +4 AC, +4 resistance bonus, and SR 25 against evil spells.
Troll Lord, C&C, Holy Word: Kills, paralyzes, blinds, or deafens non-good creatures based on HD (No Save).
Troll Lord, C&C, Ice Storm: 20-ft. radius cylinder deals 3d6 bludgeoning and 2d6 cold damage.
Troll Lord, C&C, Identify: Determines the properties of a magic item (requires 100gp pearl).
Troll Lord, C&C, Implosion: Caster collapses the target into itself, killing it instantly (1 target/round).
Troll Lord, C&C, Inflict Light Wounds: Touched target takes 1d8 + 1/level (max +5) damage (Will half).
Troll Lord, C&C, Invisibility: Subject is invisible for 1 min./level; ends if the subject attacks.
Troll Lord, C&C, Iron Body: Caster’s body becomes living iron, gaining DR 15/adamantine and multiple immunities.
Troll Lord, C&C, Keen Edge: Doubles the critical threat range of a piercing or slashing weapon.
Troll Lord, C&C, Knock: Magically opens stuck, barred, locked, or held doors or secret doors.
Troll Lord, C&C, Legend Lore: Caster learns information about a person, place, or object (long casting time).
Troll Lord, C&C, Levitate: Subject moves up or down as the caster directs (up to 20 ft./round).
Troll Lord, C&C, Light: Object shines like a torch (20-ft. radius) for 10 min./level. Troll Lord Games Official
Troll Lord, C&C, Lightning Bolt: 120-ft. line of electricity deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6); Reflex half.
Troll Lord, C&C, Limited Wish: Alters reality to duplicate any wizard spell of 6th level or lower (costs 300 XP).
Troll Lord, C&C, Locate Creature: Caster senses the direction of a specific creature within range.
Troll Lord, C&C, Locate Object: Caster senses the direction of a specific object within range.
Troll Lord, C&C, Lower Water: Lowers the level of a body of water by 2 ft./level.
Troll Lord, C&C, Magic Armor: Note: C&C version of Mage Armor; Grants +4 armor bonus to AC.
Troll Lord, C&C, Magic Circle against Evil/Good: 10-ft. radius ward grants +2 AC, +2 saves, and prevents possession.
Troll Lord, C&C, Magic Missile: Fires 1 missile + 1 per two levels (max 5); each deals 1d4+1 force damage.
Troll Lord, C&C, Major Creation: Creates mineral or metal objects (1 cu. ft./level) for a limited duration.
Troll Lord, C&C, Major Image: Creates a visual, auditory, and thermal illusion (requires concentration).
Troll Lord, C&C, Maze: Traps subject in an extradimensional labyrinth; Intelligence check to escape.
Troll Lord, C&C, Mending: Repairs minor damage to a single object.
Troll Lord, C&C, Meteor Swarm: Four 2-ft. spheres deal 6d6 fire/bludgeoning damage each in a 40-ft. radius.
Troll Lord, C&C, Mind Blank: Subject is immune to all mind-affecting effects and scrying.
Troll Lord, C&C, Mirror Image: Creates 1d4 + 1/3 levels illusory duplicates that mimic the caster's actions.
Troll Lord, C&C, Move Earth: Caster moves dirt, sand, or clay at a rate of 750 sq. ft. every 10 minutes.
Troll Lord, C&C, Neutralize Poison: Detoxifies a creature or object and grants immunity for 10 min./level.
Troll Lord, C&C, Nightmare: Sends a hideous vision to a sleeping subject, dealing 1d10 damage and leaving them fatigued.
Troll Lord, C&C, Obscuring Mist: Creates a 20-ft. radius of thick mist, granting concealment.
Paizo, C&C, Owl’s Wisdom: Subject gains +4 to Wisdom for 1 min./level.
Troll Lord, C&C, Passwall: Creates a 5-ft. by 8-ft. by 10-ft. passage through wooden or stone walls.
Troll Lord, C&C, Phantasmal Killer: Creates an illusory image of the target’s greatest fear; target must save or die.
Troll Lord, C&C, Plane Shift: Teleports up to 8 subjects to another plane of existence (requires tuning fork).
Troll Lord, C&C, Polymorph: Transforms a willing subject into another creature type for 1 min./level.
Troll Lord, C&C, Power Word Blind: Blinds one creature with 200 hp or less (No Save). Troll Lord Games Official Store
Troll Lord, C&C, Power Word Kill: Kills one creature with 100 hp or less instantly (No Save).
Troll Lord, C&C, Power Word Stun: Stuns one creature with 150 hp or less (No Save).
Troll Lord, C&C, Prayer: Allies gain a +1 luck bonus on rolls; enemies take a –1 penalty.
Troll Lord, C&C, Prismatic Sphere: Creates an immobile multicolored sphere that provides total protection.
Troll Lord, C&C, Prismatic Spray: 60-ft. cone of multicolored light strikes targets with random effects.
Troll Lord, C&C, Protection from Arrows: Subject gains DR 10/magic against ranged weapons.
Troll Lord, C&C, Protection from Energy: Subject gains immunity to 12 points of damage/level from a specific energy type.
Troll Lord, C&C, Raise Dead: Restores life to a deceased creature (dead up to 1 day/level); subject loses one level.
Troll Lord, C&C, Ray of Enfeeblement: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Strength penalty (max 1d6+5).
Troll Lord, C&C, Regenerate: Subject’s severed limbs grow back, and they heal 4d8 + 1/level.
Troll Lord, C&C, Remove Curse: Frees a person or object from a curse (Caster Level check vs. Curse DC).
Troll Lord, C&C, Resilient Sphere: Creates a globe of force that traps a creature or protects the caster.
Troll Lord, C&C, Resistance: Subject gains a +1 resistance bonus on all saving throws.
Troll Lord, C&C, Restoration: Cures temporary ability damage and restores one permanent ability drain.
Troll Lord, C&C, Reverse Gravity: Objects and creatures in a 30-ft. radius "fall" upward.
Troll Lord, C&C, Righteous Might: Caster grows one size category, gaining +4 Str and DR 5/evil.
Troll Lord, C&C, Sanctuary: Opponents must pass a Will save to attack the subject.
Troll Lord, C&C, Scrying: Caster sees and hears a creature at any distance (Will negates).
Troll Lord, C&C, Searing Light: Ray of divine light deals 1d8 damage/2 levels (max 5d8).
Troll Lord, C&C, See Invisibility: Caster sees invisible and ethereal creatures as if they were visible.
Troll Lord, C&C, Shadow Conjuration: Mimics a conjuration spell of 3rd level or lower; 20% real.
Troll Lord, C&C, Shield of Faith: Subject gains a +2 deflection bonus to AC (max +5).
Troll Lord, C&C, Silence: Creates a 20-ft. radius sphere of total silence.
Troll Lord, C&C, Slay Living: Touched subject takes 12d6 + 1/level damage; kills if reduced to 0 hp.
WotC, WSC1, AAAABB! (The Great Shout): Caster emits a deafening roar in a 60-ft. cone dealing 1d6 sonic damage/level and stunning for 1 round (Fortitude half/negates stun).
WotC, WSC1, Aballin's Grasp: Touched target is engulfed by a mass of water, beginning to drown and becoming entangled (Reflex negates).
WotC, WSC1, Abat-dolor: Target's sense of pain is suppressed, providing immunity to pain-based penalties and +10 temporary hit points for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Abberate: Subject’s body becomes distorted; grants a +4 dodge bonus to AC and immunity to critical hits for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Abbott's Aegis: Creates a 10-ft. radius ward that provides a +4 deflection bonus to AC and +4 resistance bonus on saves vs. Evil.
WotC, WSC1, Abeyance: Caster delays the trigger of a spell of 3rd level or lower for up to 1 hour; it triggers upon a set condition.
WotC, WSC1, Abishai's Aura: Caster is wreathed in blue or red fire; deals 1d6+1/level fire or cold damage to melee attackers.
WotC, WSC1, Ablative Shield: Subject gains DR 5/magic (up to 10 points/level) specifically against physical projectiles.
WotC, WSC1, Abnegation: Target must save or be unable to use a specific feat or special ability for the duration (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Abnormal Growth: Increases the size of a single plant or limb by two categories, dealing 2d6 damage to the creature if a limb.
WotC, WSC1, Abominable Form: Caster's appearance becomes so horrific that targets in a 30-ft. radius are panicked (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Aboral Gate: Creates a temporary portal to the Elemental Plane of Air for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Aboriginal Form: Subject reverts to a primitive state, losing Intelligence/Charisma but gaining +4 Strength/Constitution.
WotC, WSC1, Abrade: Targeted ray deals 1d6/level slashing damage to objects or constructs, ignoring 5 points of hardness.
WotC, WSC1, Abrasion: Caster creates a cloud of grit in a 20-ft. radius dealing 1d4 slashing damage/round and obscuring vision.
WotC, WSC1, Abrogate: Targeted dispel that permanently ends one magical effect of 3rd level or lower (Caster Level check).
WotC, WSC1, Abrupt Awakening: All sleeping creatures in a 60-ft. radius are instantly awakened and gain a +2 bonus on Initiative for 1 round.
WotC, WSC1, Absolve: Caster removes one minor curse or "taint" from a subject (functions as Remove Curse, Lesser).
WotC, WSC1, Absorb Damage: Caster takes half of all damage dealt to a touched ally; damage is stored and can be discharged as a touch attack.
WotC, WSC1, Absorb Magic: Note: Standardized under "A" as Absorption.
WotC, WSC1, Abyssal Blast: 20-ft. radius explosion deals 1d6/level unholy damage; Good creatures take 1d8/level.
WotC, WSC1, Abyssal Might: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution and DR 5/cold iron (Evil).
WotC, WSC1, Accelerate: Subject gains an extra move action each round for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Accentuate: Caster increases the power of a specific environmental trait (light, heat, cold) in a 40-ft. radius.
WotC, WSC1, Acclimatize: Subject can survive and function in extreme temperatures or high/low pressure environments for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Accuser’s Eye: Creates an invisible, floating eye that observes a target and reports back; target must save or feel watched (Will negates). AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC1, Acid Bolt: Note: Legacy version; Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 10d6) and ignores 5 points of SR.
WotC, WSC1, Acid Spray: 30-ft. cone deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 10d6); target takes 1d6 damage next round (Reflex half).
WotC, WSC1, Acid Storm: Note: 2e variant; 20-ft. radius rain deals 1d4 acid damage per level for 1 round/level (Fortitude half).
WotC, WSC1, Acoustic Barrier: Creates a 10-ft. wall that blocks all sound and deals 1d6 sonic damage to those passing through.
WotC, WSC1, Acquire Sight: Caster can see through the eyes of a touched willing subject for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Acrid Cloud: 20-ft. radius cloud deals 1d4 acid damage/round and sickens creatures within (Fortitude negates sickness).
WotC, WSC1, Adamantine Armor: Touched armor gains +5 hardness and DR 5/adamantine for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Adamantine Blade: Touched weapon ignores 10 points of hardness and gains a +2 enhancement bonus.
WotC, WSC1, Adaptability: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to a single ability score of the caster's choice for 10 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Adder’s Strike: Caster’s unarmed strikes deal +1d6 acid damage and 1 point of Strength damage.
WotC, WSC1, Adhere: Touched object or creature becomes incredibly sticky, granting a +10 bonus on grapple checks or sticking to surfaces.
WotC, WSC1, Adhesion: Note: Variant of [Adhere]; Touched surface acts as a permanent Spider Climb effect for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Admonish: Caster shouts a rebuke that stuns one creature of 6 HD or less for 1 round (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Adroit Mapping: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on Knowledge (Dungeons) or (Geography) checks to map a location.
WotC, WSC1, Adultery’s Mark: Inscribes a visible rune on the subject that glows when they are in the presence of someone they have been unfaithful with.
WotC, WSC1, Advanced Illusion: Note: 3.5e standardized as Major Image.
WotC, WSC1, Advanced Sight: Caster gains Darkvision 120 ft. and can see through magical smoke/fog for 10 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Adverse Currents: Creates a 40-ft. radius in water where swimming requires a DC 20 check; movement speed is halved.
WotC, WSC1, Adverse Weather: Caster creates a localized storm that deals 1d4 nonlethal damage/round and penalizes ranged attacks.
WotC, WSC1, Aerial Alacrity: Subject gains a +30 ft. enhancement bonus to fly speed and maneuverability improves by one category.
WotC, WSC1, Aerial Servant: Note: 3.5e standardized as Invisible Stalker (Summoning).
WotC, WSC1, Aeromancy: Caster gains a +5 bonus on Survival checks to predict weather and can hear whispers on the wind.
WotC, WSC1, Affect Fires: Caster can double or halve the size and brightness of any nonmagical fire in a 40-ft. radius.
WotC, WSC1, Affirmation: Caster grants one ally a +2 morale bonus on all attack rolls, saving throws, and skill checks for 1 round/level. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC1, Affliction: Subject is struck with a chosen non-magical disease immediately; deals 1d4 damage to a physical ability score (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Aftersight: Caster views the events that occurred in their current 10-ft. square up to 1 hour/level ago.
WotC, WSC1, Age Dragon: Caster forces a dragon to age 1d4 categories; its stats and abilities shift accordingly (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Age Golem: Touched construct takes 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6) and its speed is halved due to structural decay.
WotC, WSC1, Age Object: Note: Legacy version; Instantly ages a nonmagical object by 10 years/level; can cause rot or rust.
WotC, WSC1, Age Plant: Increases the age of a plant by 1 year/level; can cause a sapling to become a tree or a flower to wither.
WotC, WSC1, Agganazar’s Scorcher: Creates a 5-ft.-wide, 30-ft.-long line of fire dealing 1d6/level damage (max 10d6); Reflex half.
WotC, WSC1, Agility: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Dexterity for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Agitate: Target becomes irritable and aggressive, taking a –2 penalty on Diplomacy and a –2 penalty to AC.
WotC, WSC1, Agonizing Blast: 15-ft. radius burst deals 1d8/level nonlethal damage and stuns for 1 round (Fortitude negates stun).
WotC, WSC1, Agony: Note: Legacy version; Target is wracked with pain, taking a –4 penalty on all d20 rolls (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Aid: Note: Standardized under "A" as Aid.
WotC, WSC1, Airboat: Creates a boat-shaped cloud that can carry 4 people and flies at 60 ft. (Poor) for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Air Breathing: Note: Legacy version; Touched subjects can breathe air easily for 2 hours/level.
WotC, WSC1, Air Lens: Creates a magnifying lens of air that can fire a 1d6/level fire ray once per round (Concentration).
WotC, WSC1, Air of Nobility: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and a +10 bonus on Diplomacy.
WotC, WSC1, Air of Truth: 20-ft. radius zone where all creatures must pass a Will save or be unable to speak deliberate lies.
WotC, WSC1, Air Shield: Creates a localized wind around the subject that provides +4 AC against ranged attacks and disperses gases.
WotC, WSC1, Air Staff: Touched quarterstaff deals +1d6 electricity damage and can fire a Gust of Wind once per casting.
WotC, WSC1, Alacrity: Note: Legacy version; Subject gains a +10 ft. enhancement bonus to speed and +1 on initiative.
WotC, WSC1, Alarm: Note: Standardized under "A" as Alarm.
WotC, WSC1, Al-Aziz’s Fire: Caster fires a bolt of blue fire dealing 1d8/level damage; ignores 5 points of Fire Resistance.
WotC, WSC1, Alchemical Blast: Caster hurls a glob of magical liquid that explodes for 1d6 damage/level (Reflex half).
WotC, WSC1, Alcorn’s Astral Body: Subject's physical body becomes partially astral, gaining DR 10/magic and 50% miss chance vs non-magical.
WotC, WSC1, Aldin's Alacrity: Increases the subject's base land speed by 30 ft. and grants an extra move action each round for 1 round/level [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Alertness: Subject gains a +4 insight bonus on Listen and Spot checks and cannot be flat-footed for 10 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Algebral: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on all Intelligence-based checks involving mathematics or navigation for 1 hour.
WotC, WSC1, Alienation: Subject is perceived as a stranger by all allies; all Charisma-based checks against known associates take a –10 penalty (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Aligned Aura: Caster emits a 20-ft. aura of their specific alignment; allies of the same alignment gain +2 to AC and saves.
WotC, WSC1, Align Weapon: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Align Weapon.
WotC, WSC1, Alisander’s Alarum: Creates a mental trigger that alerts the caster if a specific named individual enters a 1-mile radius.
WotC, WSC1, All-Around Vision: Subject can see in all directions, gaining a +4 bonus on Spot/Search and immunity to flanking for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Allegro: Note: 2e Bard variant; Caster and allies gain a +30 ft. speed bonus and +2 bonus to Dexterity for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Alliance: Two willing subjects share the benefits of any morale-based buffs cast on either of them.
WotC, WSC1, Allisander’s Antidote: Touched subject gains a +8 resistance bonus on saves against all non-magical poisons for 1 hour.
WotC, WSC1, All-Knowing Eye: Caster can see through 1 foot of stone or 1 inch of common metal for 1 round/level (Concentration).
WotC, WSC1, Alter Aura: Caster changes the perceived alignment or power level of a magical aura to fool Detect spells.
WotC, WSC1, Alter Fortune: Note: 2e Chronomancy; Caster forces a reroll of a single d20 roll just made by any creature within 30 ft. (Immediate Action).
WotC, WSC1, Alter Instrument: Magically tunes or detunes an instrument, providing a +5 or –5 penalty on Perform checks.
WotC, WSC1, Alter Liquid: Note: Legacy version; Transforms 1 gallon/level of one liquid into another (e.g., water to oil).
WotC, WSC1, Alter Normal Fires: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Affect Fires (Pyrotechnics).
WotC, WSC1, Alter Self: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Alter Self.
WotC, WSC1, Alternate Reality: Caster shifts to a timeline where a recent event (last 1 round) did not occur; essentially a "undo" for one action.
WotC, WSC1, Amalgamate: Touched objects or substances are fused into a single seamless unit (e.g., two swords fused into a single mass).
WotC, WSC1, Amanuensis: Note: Legacy version; Copies nonmagical text at a rate of 1 page per round.
WotC, WSC1, Amber Entombment: Targets in a 10-ft. radius are encased in transparent amber; subjects are in stasis (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Ambush: Caster and allies within 20 ft. gain a +10 competence bonus on Hide and Move Silently for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Ameliorate: Caster reduces the severity of a condition (e.g., Exhausted becomes Fatigued, Panicked becomes Frightened).
WotC, WSC1, Amorphous Form: Note: Legacy version; Subject becomes malleable, gaining immunity to critical hits and passing through small gaps.
WotC, WSC1, Amplify: Increases the volume of all sounds in a 20-ft. radius, granting a +10 bonus on Listen checks [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Amplitude: Caster triples the effective range of a single targeted or area spell cast in the next round (Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Amputate: Touched target must save or a single non-vital limb is severed; deals 1d6 Constitution damage (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Amuse: Caster creates minor illusory sparks or sounds that provide a +2 morale bonus on Charisma checks for 10 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Anachrony: Subject is shifted 1d4 rounds into the future; they disappear and reappear in the same spot (No Save).
WotC, WSC1, Analyze: Caster learns the exact numerical value of one attribute (HP, AC, or a Stat) of the target (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Analyze Portal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Analyze Portal.
WotC, WSC1, Anarchy: 30-ft. radius burst of chaos deals 1d8/2 levels damage and confuses lawful creatures (Will half/negates).
WotC, WSC1, Ancestral Ghost: Note: Legacy version; Summons a spectral ancestor to serve as a guide or a Shadow for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Ancestral Vengeance: Touched target takes 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) if they have ever harmed the caster's family line.
WotC, WSC1, Anchor: Caster creates a magical tether to their current location; they can teleport back to it as a move action for the duration.
WotC, WSC1, Ancient Blessing: Caster grants a +2 sacred bonus on saves vs. Spells and +1 to Caster Level for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Ancient Curse: Subject is afflicted with a chosen permanent penalty (e.g., –4 to an ability score) (Will negates; Remove Curse required).
WotC, WSC1, Andary’s Armor: Subject's natural armor bonus increases by +4 and they gain DR 5/magic for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Anesthesia: Subject becomes immune to pain-based penalties and cannot feel physical touch for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Anger: Subject enters a rage, gaining +4 Strength and Constitution but –2 AC; must attack the nearest foe.
WotC, WSC1, Angered Flame: Fire source deals double damage (2d6 per round) and expands in size by 50%.
WotC, WSC1, Angstrom’s Alarum: Caster is alerted if any invisible or ethereal creature enters a 60-ft. radius.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Allure: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on Handle Animal and can communicate with a specific animal species.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Growth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animal Growth.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Magnetism: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and a +5 bonus on Bluff/Diplomacy against animals.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Messenger: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animal Messenger.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Shapes: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animal Shapes.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Spy: Note: Legacy version; Caster can perceive through an animal’s senses for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Animal Twin: Caster creates an illusory duplicate of an animal that mirrors its movements and provides flanking.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Armor: Animates a suit of armor as a Medium Animated Object to fight for the caster for 1 round/level [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Animate Dead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animate Dead.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Dead, Lesser: Animates a single Skeleton or Zombie from a Small or Medium corpse.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Fire: Note: Legacy version; Transforms a fire source into a Small Fire Elemental.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Objects: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animate Objects.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Rock: Transforms a boulder into a Large Animated Object with high hardness for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Snow: Creates a "Snow Creature" (apply Construct type) that deals cold damage on hit.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Statue: Animates a stone or metal statue as a Large Animated Object.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Water: Transforms a volume of water into a Small Water Elemental.
WotC, WSC1, Animate Wood: Note: Legacy version; Animates wooden objects to move or attack; grants 2d6 bludgeoning damage.
WotC, WSC1, Annihilation: Targeted ray deals 10 damage/level (max 100); if target reaches 0 HP, it is entirely erased from reality (Fortitude partial).
WotC, WSC1, Annulus: Creates a 5-ft. ring of force that prevents any creature from entering or exiting the circle (No Save).
WotC, WSC1, Answer: Note: 2e Divination; Caster receives a one-word answer to a single question regarding the immediate future.
WotC, WSC1, Antagonism: Target must save or be compelled to attack the caster in preference to all others (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Anticipate Teleportation: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Anticipate Teleportation.
WotC, WSC1, Antimagic Shell: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Antimagic Field.
WotC, WSC1, Antipathy: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Antipathy.
WotC, WSC1, Anti-Plant Shell: Creates a 10-ft. radius barrier that prevents plants and plant creatures from entering.
WotC, WSC1, Anyread: Note: Legacy version; Caster understands any written nonmagical text for 10 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Apparition: Note: Legacy version; Caster's face appears ghostly, granting a +10 bonus on Intimidate and shaking foes.
WotC, WSC1, Apparitional Web: 20-ft. radius illusory web entangles targets; 50% real if save fails (Will disbelief).
WotC, WSC1, Appearance of Life: Undead subject appears as a living version of itself, granting a +20 bonus on Disguise.
WotC, WSC1, Apple of Discord: Touched fruit causes target to become intensely jealous and aggressive toward its closest ally (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Appraising Touch: Caster gains a +10 enhancement bonus on Appraise checks for 1 hour.
WotC, WSC1, Aqueous Escape: Note: Legacy version; Caster transforms into a Small fish or aquatic creature for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Aqueous Flow: Caster dissolves into a liquid form, able to flow through cracks and travel through water at their base speed [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Arachnophobia: Note: Legacy version; Creates an illusory swarm of spiders that deals 1d6 psychic damage and shakes targets (Will disbelief).
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Archer: Caster imbues a single arrow with a touch-range spell of 3rd level or lower; spell triggers on a successful hit.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Bolt: Note: Legacy version; Bolt of pure mana deals 1d4 damage/level (max 10d4); bypasses all energy resistances.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Bridge: Creates a 10-ft. wide bridge of force up to 20 ft./level long; supports 200 lbs./level.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Direction: Caster points a finger and magically determines the exact direction of the nearest source of strong magic within 1 mile.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Eye: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Arcane Eye.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Lock: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Arcane Lock.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Mark: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Arcane Mark.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Shield: Caster gains a +4 deflection bonus to AC and SR 12 + level against a single chosen school of magic.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Sight: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Arcane Sight.
WotC, WSC1, Arcane Turmoil: Note: Legacy version; Targeted dispel that forces the target to lose a random 1st-level spell slot (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Arch-Ethereal: Caster and up to one person/3 levels travel to the Deep Ethereal Plane for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Architect’s Vision: Caster views the structural weaknesses of a building, gaining a +10 bonus on checks to demolish or bypass it.
WotC, WSC1, Area of Awe: 40-ft. radius burst causes enemies to take a –2 penalty on attacks and saves against fear (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Arid Air: Removes all moisture from a 20-ft. radius; deals 1d6 desiccating damage/round to plant-based creatures.
WotC, WSC1, Arm of the Titan: Caster’s arm grows to Large size, granting a +6 enhancement bonus to Strength and 10-ft. reach.
WotC, WSC1, Armor: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mage Armor.
WotC, WSC1, Armor of Darkness: Note: Legacy version; Grants +4 deflection bonus, darkvision, and +2 bonus on saves vs. Holy effects.
WotC, WSC1, Armor of Force: Creates a shimmering field providing a +6 armor bonus; works against incorporeal touch attacks.
WotC, WSC1, Armory: Summons a spectral rack containing one nonmagical weapon of choice per 3 levels; weapons last 1 hour.
WotC, WSC1, Arrow Mind: Note: Legacy version; Caster can use a bow in melee without provoking attacks of opportunity.
WotC, WSC1, Arrow of Bone: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Arrow of Bone.
WotC, WSC1, Arrow of Fire: Imbues 20 projectiles with +1d6 fire damage for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Arrow of Law: Note: Legacy version; Ray deals 1d8 damage/2 levels to chaotic creatures and dazes them (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Art of the Duel: Subject gains a +10 insight bonus on their next single attack roll or initiative check [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Artograph: Caster instantly reproduces a nonmagical map or drawing onto a new surface with 100% accuracy.
WotC, WSC1, Arvon’s Alacrity: Caster and allies within 30 ft. gain a +10 ft. bonus to land speed and +1 on Reflex saves.
WotC, WSC1, Asaph’s Admonition: Caster shouts a rebuke; target is dazed for 1 round and shaken for 1d4 rounds (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Ascension: Subject is lifted 10 ft./level into the air; functions as Levitate but movement is purely vertical.
WotC, WSC1, Ashen Form: Subject becomes a sentient cloud of ash; gains DR 10/magic and immunity to fire/poison.
WotC, WSC1, Aspect of the Bear: Subject gains +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and +2 natural armor for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Aspect of the Falcon: Subject gains +3 competence bonus on Spot and +1 on ranged attack rolls.
WotC, WSC1, Aspect of the Wolf: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Aspect of the Wolf.
WotC, WSC1, Asphyxiate: Note: Legacy version; Creates a 1-ft. sphere of vacuum around a target's head; target begins suffocating (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Assassinate: Caster deals 1d6 damage/level (max 10d6) to a flat-footed target; threatens critical on 18-20.
WotC, WSC1, Assay Spell Resistance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Assay Spell Resistance.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Awareness: Caster can see into the Astral Plane and detect astral silver cords within 60 ft.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Barrier: Creates a 10-ft. radius ward that prevents astral travelers from entering or manifesting.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Body: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Astral Projection.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Eye: Creates an invisible sensor on the Astral Plane that sends visual info to the caster on the Material Plane.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Mark: Inscribes a permanent rune on a subject that is only visible to those on the Astral Plane.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Projection: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Astral Projection.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Shield: Creates a shield of astral energy; provides a +4 shield bonus and DR 5/magic.
WotC, WSC1, Astral Spell: Note: 2e nomenclature for [Astral Projection].
WotC, WSC1, Atavism: Note: Legacy version; Touched animal gains a "feral" template (+4 Str, +2 Con, -4 Int) for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Atmosphere: Creates a 10-ft. sphere of breathable air and comfortable temperature in extreme environments.
WotC, WSC1, Attraction: Subject is magically attracted to a specific object or creature, moving toward it at full speed (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Audible Glamer: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Audible Glamer (Ghost Sound).
WotC, WSC1, Augury: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Augury.
WotC, WSC1, Aura of Death: Note: Legacy version; Living creatures within 20 ft. take 1d6 negative energy damage/round.
WotC, WSC1, Aura of Enervation: Note: Legacy version; Enemies within 20 ft. gain 1 negative level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Aura of Evasion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Aura of Evasion.
WotC, WSC1, Aura of Terror: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Aura of Terror.
WotC, WSC1, Authenticate: Caster instantly determines if an object is a genuine original or a copy/illusion.
WotC, WSC1, Avoid Planar Effects: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Avoid Planar Effects.
WotC, WSC1, Awaken: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Awaken.
WotC, WSC1, Awaken Sin: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Awaken Sin.
WotC, WSC1, Axani’s Command: A command given to a creature of the Lawful subtype that must be obeyed (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Babau Slime: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Babau Slime.
WotC, WSC1, Babble: Target's speech becomes incoherent; prevents verbal spellcasting (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Backbiter: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Backbiter.
WotC, WSC1, Backlash: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Backlash.
WotC, WSC1, Bag of Wind: Creates a 60-ft. cone of wind dealing 1d6 damage/level and knocking targets prone (Reflex half).
WotC, WSC1, Baleful Blink: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Baleful Blink.
WotC, WSC1, Baleful Polymorph: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Baleful Polymorph.
WotC, WSC1, Ball Lightning: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ball Lightning.
WotC, WSC1, Balor Nimbus: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Balor Nimbus.
WotC, WSC1, Bane: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bane.
WotC, WSC1, Banishment: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Banishment.
WotC, WSC1, Barb: Caster’s skin sprouts sharp quills; deals 1d6 piercing damage to grapplers or melee attackers.
WotC, WSC1, Barkskin: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Barkskin.
WotC, WSC1, Barrage of Entropic Blades: Creates force blades strike targets in a line for 1d6/level damage.
WotC, WSC1, Barrier of Sound: Creates a 10-ft. wall that blocks all sound and deals 1d6 sonic damage to those passing through.
WotC, WSC1, Battle-Axe of the Titan: Creates a Large +2 greataxe of force that attacks as directed by the caster.
WotC, WSC1, Battle-Mage’s Perception: Subject gains a +5 insight bonus on Spellcraft checks to identify spells as they are being cast [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Battle-Mage’s Shield: Caster gains a +4 deflection bonus to AC and SR 12 + level against a single chosen school.
WotC, WSC1, Battlefield Illumination: Increases or decreases light level in a 100-ft. radius to facilitate or hinder combat.
WotC, WSC1, Bear’s Endurance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bear's Endurance.
WotC, WSC1, Beast Claws: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Beast Claws.
WotC, WSC1, Beastmask: Caster takes on the scent and visual cues of a specific animal species to avoid detection.
WotC, WSC1, Befuddle: Target’s mental faculties are dulled, causing a –2 penalty to Intelligence and Wisdom (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Belker Claws: Caster’s touch deals 2d12 damage as smoke enters the subject's lungs (Fortitude half).
WotC, WSC1, Benign Transposition: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Benign Transposition.
WotC, WSC1, Bestow Curse: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bestow Curse.
WotC, WSC1, Bestow Wound: Caster transfers 1 hp per level of their own current damage to a touched subject.
WotC, WSC1, Bigby’s Clenched Fist: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bigby's Clenched Fist.
WotC, WSC1, Bigby’s Crushing Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bigby's Crushing Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Bigby’s Forceful Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bigby's Forceful Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Bigby’s Grasping Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bigby's Grasping Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Bigby’s Interposing Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bigby's Interposing Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Bigby’s Slapping Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bigby's Slapping Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Binding: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Binding.
WotC, WSC1, Binding Winds: Envelops target in a vortex, preventing movement and hindering casting (Reflex negates).
WotC, WSC1, Black Blades of Disaster: Creates a rift-blade that disintegrates targets (Fortitude partial).
WotC, WSC1, Black Karma Curse: Target's next melee attack is redirected to strike itself (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Blacklight: Creates a 20-ft. radius of total darkness that the caster can see through.
WotC, WSC1, Blade Barrier: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Blade Barrier.
WotC, WSC1, Blade Brothers: Links two allies; both can roll saves against mind-affecting effects and take the better.
WotC, WSC1, Blade of Pain and Fear: Creates a blade of gnashing teeth that deals 1d6+1/2 levels damage and frightens.
WotC, WSC1, Blade of Thorns: Touched wooden weapon deals +1 damage per level (max +10).
WotC, WSC1, Blade Storm: Caster makes a single melee attack against every creature within reach.
WotC, WSC1, Blade Thirst: Grants a slashing weapon a +3 enhancement bonus and the keen property.
WotC, WSC1, Blade Weave: Each round, one creature struck by the caster's melee weapon must save or be dazed.
WotC, WSC1, Blast of Flame: 60-ft. cone of fire deals 1d6/level damage (max 10d6); ignores SR.
WotC, WSC1, Blast of Force: Ray of force deals 1d6 damage/2 levels and knocks the subject prone.
WotC, WSC1, Blaze of Light: 60-ft. cone of light dazzles all creatures within for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Bleed: Touched creature takes 1 hp/round until stabilized with a DC 15 Heal check.
WotC, WSC1, Bless: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bless.
WotC, WSC1, Bless Weapon: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bless Weapon.
WotC, WSC1, Blessed Sight: Caster sees the auras of good creatures within 120 ft.
WotC, WSC1, Blight: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Blight.
WotC, WSC1, Blindness/Deafness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Blindness/Deafness.
WotC, WSC1, Blindsight: Subject gains the blindsight ability with a 30-ft. range.
WotC, WSC1, Blink: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Blink.
WotC, WSC1, Blistering Radiance: Sphere of light deals 2d6 fire damage and dazzles creatures within.
WotC, WSC1, Blood Sirocco: Wind of blood deals 1d6/level damage and knocks targets prone.
WotC, WSC1, Blood to Water: Transforms blood to water, dealing 2d6 Constitution damage (Fortitude half).
WotC, WSC1, Bloodstar: Floating ruby star deals 1 Constitution damage to target whenever it takes damage.
WotC, WSC1, Body Blades: Caster’s body sprouts spikes; deals 1d6+1/level damage to grapplers.
WotC, WSC1, Body Harmonic: Deals 1d10 damage to a different ability score each round (Concentration).
WotC, WSC1, Bolster Wings: Subject's fly speed increases by 30 ft. and maneuverability improves by one category.
WotC, WSC1, Bolt of Glory: Bolt deals damage based on target’s home plane; extra damage to Undead/Evil.
WotC, WSC1, Bombardment: Rain of rocks deals 1d6/level damage and buries creatures (Reflex partial).
WotC, WSC1, Bonefiddle: Spectral bow plays on target's bones, dealing 1d6 sonic damage/round.
WotC, WSC1, Boomerang Casting: Caster’s next touch spell can be delivered as a ray with a 30-ft. range (Swift Action) [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Bowgentle's Fleeting Journey: Touched object or creature teleports to a seen location within 100 ft. and returns 1 round later.
WotC, WSC1, Brambles: Touched wooden weapon deals +1 damage per level (max +10) and threatens a critical on 19-20.
WotC, WSC1, Breath Flare: Caster's next breath weapon also dazzles or blinds targets for 1d4 rounds (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Briar Web: Plants in the area grow thorns; movement deals 1d6 damage and causes entanglement (Reflex partial).
WotC, WSC1, Brilliant Blade: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Brilliant Blade.
WotC, WSC1, Bull’s Strength: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Bull's Strength.
WotC, WSC1, Buried Treasure: Caster magically senses the location of the most valuable object within 600 ft. underground.
WotC, WSC1, Burning Blood: Target’s blood catches fire, dealing 1d8 fire and 1d8 acid damage per round (Fortitude half).
WotC, WSC1, Burning Hands: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Burning Hands.
WotC, WSC1, Burning Sword: Weapon gains the flaming burst property and sheds light as a torch.
WotC, WSC1, Cacophonic Shield: Creates a barrier of sound that deals 1d6+1/level sonic damage and pushes back those who cross.
WotC, WSC1, Call Armor: Summons a set of armor owned by the caster and dons it instantly (Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Call Lightning: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Call Lightning.
WotC, WSC1, Call Mount: Summons a light horse or pony to serve as a mount for 2 hours/level.
WotC, WSC1, Calm Animals: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Calm Animals.
WotC, WSC1, Calm Emotions: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Calm Emotions.
WotC, WSC1, Camouflage: Grants a +10 competence bonus on Hide checks in natural settings.
WotC, WSC1, Cast in Stone: Caster’s gaze turns targets to stone permanently (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Castigate: Caster shouts a rebuke; foes take 1d6/level damage and are deafened (Will half).
WotC, WSC1, Cat’s Grace: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Cat's Grace.
WotC, WSC1, Cause Fear: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Cause Fear.
WotC, WSC1, Chain Dissolve: Targeted acid attack jumps to 1 secondary target/level, dealing 1d6/level damage.
WotC, WSC1, Chain Lightning: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Chain Lightning.
WotC, WSC1, Chain of Eyes: Caster can see through the eyes of a touched subject, then "pass" the sensor via touch.
WotC, WSC1, Chain of Wardings: Creates a series of invisible 10-ft. cubes that trigger a selected 1st-level spell when entered.
WotC, WSC1, Chameleon: Subject's coloring shifts, granting a +10 enhancement bonus on Hide checks.
WotC, WSC1, Chaos Hammer: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Chaos Hammer.
WotC, WSC1, Checkmate: Creates a field that prevents a specific creature from moving closer to the caster (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Chill Metal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Chill Metal.
WotC, WSC1, Chill Touch: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Chill Touch.
WotC, WSC1, Choice of Card: Caster gains a random beneficial temporary buff based on a deck of cards (Luck bonus).
WotC, WSC1, Circle of Death: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Circle of Death.
WotC, WSC1, Circle of Enervation: 20-ft. radius burst deals 1d4 negative levels to all living creatures (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Clairaudience/Clairvoyance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Clairaudience/Clairvoyance.
WotC, WSC1, Claws of the Bear: Caster's hands become claws dealing 1d8 damage (Medium).
WotC, WSC1, Cleanse: Caster is cured of blindness, deafness, disease, and poison (Self only).
WotC, WSC1, Cloak of Chaos: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Cloak of Chaos.
WotC, WSC1, Cloak of Dark Power: Subject is protected from sunlight and gains a +4 resistance bonus on saves.
WotC, WSC1, Close Wounds: Caster heals 1d4+1/level (max +5) damage as an immediate action.
WotC, WSC1, Cloudkill: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Cloudkill.
WotC, WSC1, Cloud of Bewilderment: 15-ft. cone of gas stuns and blinds creatures (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Clutch of Orcus: Caster crushes target's heart, dealing 1d12 damage/round and paralyzing (Concentration).
WotC, WSC1, Color Spray: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Color Spray.
WotC, WSC1, Column of Ice: Creates a 10-ft. wide, 20-ft. high pillar of ice that can lift objects or block paths.
WotC, WSC1, Cometfall: A comet strikes the ground, dealing 1d6/level damage and knocking targets prone.
WotC, WSC1, Command: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Command.
WotC, WSC1, Command Undead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Command Undead.
WotC, WSC1, Commune: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Commune.
WotC, WSC1, Commune with Nature: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Commune with Nature.
WotC, WSC1, Compassionate Ally: Target feels compelled to aid a fallen or wounded ally, ignoring combat for 1 round/level [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Comprehend Languages: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Comprehend Languages.
WotC, WSC1, Compel Breath: Forces a creature with a breath weapon to use it immediately (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Comatose: Subject falls into a deep catatonic sleep for 1 hour/level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Cone of Cold: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Cone of Cold.
WotC, WSC1, Confusion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Confusion.
WotC, WSC1, Conjure Ice Elemental: Note: Legacy version; Summons an Ice Elemental to fight for the caster.
WotC, WSC1, Consecrate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Consecrate.
WotC, WSC1, Consumptive Field: Caster drains 1d8 hp from all creatures with 0 or fewer hp, gaining +2 Str and +1 CL.
WotC, WSC1, Contact Other Plane: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Contact Other Plane.
WotC, WSC1, Contagion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Contagion.
WotC, WSC1, Contingency: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Contingency.
WotC, WSC1, Continual Flame: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Continual Flame.
WotC, WSC1, Control Water: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Control Water.
WotC, WSC1, Control Weather: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Control Weather.
WotC, WSC1, Control Winds: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Control Winds.
WotC, WSC1, Conviction: Subject gains a +2 morale bonus on all saving throws for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Corellon’s Mirror: Caster’s shield or blade reflects gaze attacks and rays back at the attacker for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Corona of Cold: Caster is surrounded by frost; nearby enemies take 1d12 cold damage/round and –2 Str/Dex.
WotC, WSC1, Corporeal Instability: Subject's form becomes a spongy mass; deals 1 Wisdom drain/round (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Countermoon: Forces a lycanthrope to return to humanoid form and prevents shifting (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Crawling Darkness: A shroud of dark tentacles grants concealment and a +4 competence bonus to AC.
WotC, WSC1, Create Food and Water: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Create Food and Water.
WotC, WSC1, Create Greater Undead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Create Greater Undead.
WotC, WSC1, Create Magic Tattoo: Inscribes a tattoo providing a +1 luck bonus on attacks or +2 on saves.
WotC, WSC1, Create Undead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Create Undead.
WotC, WSC1, Create Water: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Create Water.
WotC, WSC1, Creeping Doom: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Creeping Doom.
WotC, WSC1, Critical Strike: Caster’s next melee attack deals +1d6 damage and ignores concealment (Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Crown of Brilliance: Caster sheds blinding light; undead take 1d6 damage/round in 20-ft. radius.
WotC, WSC1, Crown of Might: Subject gains a +2 enhancement bonus to Strength for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Crown of Protection: Subject gains a +1 deflection bonus to AC and +1 resistance bonus on saves.
WotC, WSC1, Crushing Despair: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Crushing Despair.
WotC, WSC1, Cure Critical Wounds: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Cure Critical Wounds.
WotC, WSC1, Curse of Ill Fortune: Subject takes a –3 luck penalty on attack rolls and saves (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Curse of Impending Misfortune: Subject takes a –3 penalty on attack rolls and saves indefinitely (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Curse of Lycanthropy: Subject contracts lycanthropy (Werewolf) if they fail a Fortitude save.
WotC, WSC1, Curse of the Brute: Caster gains a +1 to +5 bonus to physical stats, but takes an equal penalty to mental stats.
WotC, WSC1, Cutaneous Magic: Touched subject gains DR 10/magic for 10 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Cyclonic Blast: 20-ft.-wide, 100-ft.-long line of wind deals 1d6/level damage and knocks targets back.
WotC, WSC1, Dancing Lights: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dancing Lights.
WotC, WSC1, Dance of the Unicorn: A mist protects allies from inhaled toxins and gases in a 20-ft. radius.
WotC, WSC1, Darkbolt: Caster fires rays of darkness (1 ray/3 levels) dealing 2d8 damage and stunning.
WotC, WSC1, Darkfire: Note: Legacy version; Caster fires cold black flames dealing 1d6/2 levels damage on a touch.
WotC, WSC1, Darkness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Darkness.
WotC, WSC1, Darkvision: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Darkvision.
WotC, WSC1, Dark Way: Creates a bridge of force that can support up to 200 lbs./level for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Darting Shadow: Caster gains a +10 bonus on Jump checks and can make a 5-ft. step as an immediate action.
WotC, WSC1, Daylight: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Daylight.
WotC, WSC1, Daze: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Daze.
WotC, WSC1, Deafening Clang: Touched weapon deals +1d6 sonic damage and deafens targets on a successful hit (Fortitude negates deafness).
WotC, WSC1, Death Armor: Caster is surrounded by a black aura; anyone striking with a non-reach melee weapon takes 1d4 + 1/2 levels damage.
WotC, WSC1, Death Knell: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Death Knell.
WotC, WSC1, Death Ward: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Death Ward.
WotC, WSC1, Deeper Darkness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Deeper Darkness.
WotC, WSC1, Deep Breath: Caster’s lungs instantly fill with air; can be cast as an immediate action to avoid drowning.
WotC, WSC1, Deep Slumber: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Deep Slumber.
WotC, WSC1, Defenestrating Sphere: A sphere of wind hurls creatures into the air, dealing 3d6 fall damage and knocking them prone.
WotC, WSC1, Deflect: Caster gains a deflection bonus to AC equal to 1/2 caster level against a single attack (Immediate Action).
WotC, WSC1, Dehydrate: Touched creature takes 1d6/level desiccating damage (max 10d6) and is fatigued.
WotC, WSC1, Delayed Blast Fireball: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Delayed Blast Fireball.
WotC, WSC1, Delay Death: Subject cannot die from hit point damage, remaining alive even at –10 hp or lower.
WotC, WSC1, Delay Poison: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Delay Poison.
WotC, WSC1, Delusions of Grandeur: Subject believes they are more powerful than they are, taking –2 to AC, saves, and checks.
WotC, WSC1, Demand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Demand.
WotC, WSC1, Demonhide: Evil subject gains DR 5/cold iron and good for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Desecrate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Desecrate.
WotC, WSC1, Destruction: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Destruction.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Alignment: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Chaos/Evil/Good/Law.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Dragonmark: Detects the presence and strength of dragonmarks on creatures in a 60-ft. cone.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Magic: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Magic.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Metal and Stone: Detects a specific type of metal or stone within 60 ft.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Poison: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Poison.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Scrying: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Scrying.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Secret Doors: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Secret Doors.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Ship: Caster detects any ship or large vessel within 1 mile/level.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Thoughts: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Thoughts.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Undead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Detect Undead.
WotC, WSC1, Detect Weaponry: Detects the presence of weapons on a person or in an area in a 60-ft. cone.
WotC, WSC1, Devil’s Eye: Caster can see through magical and non-magical darkness up to 30 ft.
WotC, WSC1, Diamondsteel: Touched armor gains DR 5/adamantine for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Dictum: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dictum.
WotC, WSC1, Dimension Door: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dimension Door.
WotC, WSC1, Dimension Door, Greater: As Dimension Door, but caster can teleport once per round for the duration.
WotC, WSC1, Dimension Jumper: Caster can teleport 30 ft. as a move action each round for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Dimensional Anchor: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dimensional Anchor.
WotC, WSC1, Dimensional Lock: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dimensional Lock.
WotC, WSC1, Diminish Plants: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Diminish Plants.
WotC, WSC1, Dirge: Caster plays a song that deals 2 points of Strength and Dexterity damage per round to undead.
WotC, WSC1, Discern Lies: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Discern Lies.
WotC, WSC1, Discern Location: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Discern Location.
WotC, WSC1, Disintegrate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Disintegrate.
WotC, WSC1, Dismissal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dismissal.
WotC, WSC1, Dispel Alignment: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dispel Evil.
WotC, WSC1, Dispel Magic: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dispel Magic.
WotC, WSC1, Dispelling Breath: Caster’s breath weapon acts as a targeted Dispel Magic against every creature hit.
WotC, WSC1, Dispelling Screen: Creates a shimmering violet wall; any creature or spell passing through is subject to a targeted dispel.
WotC, WSC1, Displacement: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Displacement.
WotC, WSC1, Disrupt Undead: Ray of positive energy deals 1d6 damage to an undead creature.
WotC, WSC1, Disrupting Weapon: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Disrupting Weapon.
WotC, WSC1, Distract: Subject takes a –4 penalty on Listen, Search, Sense Motive, and Spot checks (Will negates) AD&D 2e Archive.
WotC, WSC1, Distract Assailant: Subject is considered flat-footed until the beginning of its next turn (Swift Action; Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Distressing Resonance: Creates a sound that deals 1d6/level sonic damage to constructs and crystalline creatures.
WotC, WSC1, Divination: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Divination.
WotC, WSC1, Divine Favor: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Divine Favor.
WotC, WSC1, Divine Insight: Caster gains a +5 to +15 insight bonus on a single immediate skill check.
WotC, WSC1, Divine Power: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Divine Power.
WotC, WSC1, Divine Protection: Caster and allies within 20 ft. gain a +1 morale bonus to AC and saving throws.
WotC, WSC1, Divine Sacrifice: Caster sacrifices 2 hp per attack to deal an extra 1d8 (up to 5d8) damage on a hit.
WotC, WSC1, Dolorous Blow: Touched weapon's critical threat range is doubled and automatically confirms critical hits.
WotC, WSC1, Dominate Alignment: Note: Legacy version; Functions as Dominate Person but affects any creature of a specific alignment.
WotC, WSC1, Dominate Animal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dominate Animal.
WotC, WSC1, Dominate Monster: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dominate Monster.
WotC, WSC1, Dominate Person: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dominate Person.
WotC, WSC1, Doom: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Doom.
WotC, WSC1, Draconic Might: Subject gains +4 enhancement bonus to Str, Con, and Cha, and +4 natural armor.
WotC, WSC1, Draconic Polymorph: As Polymorph, but subject can take dragon forms up to their HD.
WotC, WSC1, Dragon Breath: Caster gains a breath weapon (1d8/2 levels) based on a chosen dragon type.
WotC, WSC1, Dragonsight: Caster gains darkvision (10 ft./level) and blindsense (5 ft./level).
WotC, WSC1, Dream: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dream.
WotC, WSC1, Drown: Caster fills the target’s lungs with water; target falls to 0 hp and begins dying (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Dualward: Caster creates a field that allows them to counterspell two spells simultaneously.
WotC, WSC1, Duelward: Caster gains a +4 insight bonus on initiative and can counterspell as an immediate action.
WotC, WSC1, Dust to Dust: Deals 1d8/level (max 10d8) to undead; those killed are reduced to fine dust.
WotC, WSC1, Eagle’s Splendor: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Eagle's Splendor.
WotC, WSC1, Earth Lock: Magically seals a passage in stone, making it nearly impossible to open or pass.
WotC, WSC1, Earthquake: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Earthquake.
WotC, WSC1, Ebon Ray of Doom: Black ray deals 1d4 Str, Dex, and Con damage and prevents magical healing.
WotC, WSC1, Echo Skull: Caster can see, hear, and speak through a prepared animal skull as an incorporeal sensor.
WotC, WSC1, Edibility: Caster makes an object appear and taste like delicious food to a specific creature type.
WotC, WSC1, Effulgent Epuration: Creates shimmering orbs (1 per level) that each negate a single targeted spell.
WotC, WSC1, Electric Jolt: Ranged touch attack deals 1d3 electricity damage (Cantrip).
WotC, WSC1, Electric Loop: Electricity jumps between up to 3 targets, dealing 1d6/2 levels and potentially stunning.
WotC, WSC1, Elemental Body: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Elemental Body.
WotC, WSC1, Elemental Monolith: Summons a Colossal elemental monolith to crush foes (Concentration).
WotC, WSC1, Elemental Swarm: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Elemental Swarm.
WotC, WSC1, Elation: Allies within 30 ft. gain a +2 morale bonus to Str/Dex and +5 ft. movement speed.
WotC, WSC1, Embalm: Preserves a corpse indefinitely and grants it +2 natural armor if later animated.
WotC, WSC1, Emblem of Greed: Touched weapon becomes +1 flaming burst; caster’s BAB becomes equal to level when using it.
WotC, WSC1, Embrace the Wild: Caster gains low-light vision, scent, or a +4 bonus to Listen/Spot for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Emerald Burst: 20-ft. radius burst dazes or stuns all neutral or evil creatures (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Energy Admixture: [Metamagic] Modifies a spell to add an equal amount of a second energy type.
WotC, WSC1, Energy Drain: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Energy Drain.
WotC, WSC1, Energy Immunity: Subject is completely immune to one energy type for 24 hours.
WotC, WSC1, Energy Resistance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Resist Energy.
WotC, WSC1, Energy Spheres: Creates five colored spheres of different energy types that can be fired as rays.
WotC, WSC1, Energy Transformation Field: Area fuels an anchored spell whenever any magic is cast within its radius.
WotC, WSC1, Energy Vulnerability: Subject takes 50% more damage from a specific energy type (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Enervation: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Enervation.
WotC, WSC1, Enlarge Person: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Enlarge Person.
WotC, WSC1, Entangle: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Entangle.
WotC, WSC1, Enthrall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Enthrall.
WotC, WSC1, Entice Gift: Subject is compelled to hand the caster whatever object it is currently holding (Will negates). AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC1, Entomb: Caster traps the subject in a block of ice or earth, dealing 1d6 damage/level and suffocating it.
WotC, WSC1, Entropic Shield: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Entropic Shield.
WotC, WSC1, Enveloping Cocoon: Target is wrapped in thick, magical webbing that prevents movement and spellcasting.
WotC, WSC1, Erase: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Erase.
WotC, WSC1, Essence of the Raptor: Caster gains a +8 bonus to Hide, Jump, Listen, Move Silently, and Spot; speed increases to 60 ft.
WotC, WSC1, Estanna’s Stew: Creates a magical stew that heals 1d6+1 per serving (up to 1 serving/2 levels).
WotC, WSC1, Ethereal Jaunt: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ethereal Jaunt.
WotC, WSC1, Etherealness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Etherealness.
WotC, WSC1, Evard’s Black Tentacles: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Black Tentacles.
WotC, WSC1, Executioner’s Eyes: Caster and allies within 30 ft. gain a +4 insight bonus on attack rolls and see through any concealment.
WotC, WSC1, Exorcism: Forces a possessing spirit or entity out of a body (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Expeditious Retreat: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Expeditious Retreat.
WotC, WSC1, Exploding Rune Field: Creates an area of invisible runes that explode for 1d6/level force damage when triggered.
WotC, WSC1, Explosive Runes: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Explosive Runes.
WotC, WSC1, Expose Adultery: Caster determines if a subject has been unfaithful to a spouse or partner (Divination).
WotC, WSC1, Extract Drug: Caster magically extracts a dose of a specific drug from a plant or organic material.
WotC, WSC1, Extract Water Elemental: Caster pulls water from a target's body (7d6 damage), creating a water elemental from the remains.
WotC, WSC1, Eyebite: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Eyebite.
WotC, WSC1, Fabricate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Fabricate.
WotC, WSC1, Face of the Deity: Caster takes on an aspect of their deity, gaining resistances and +4 stat boosts.
WotC, WSC1, Faerie Fire: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Faerie Fire.
WotC, WSC1, False Life: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as False Life.
WotC, WSC1, False Vision: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as False Vision.
WotC, WSC1, Familiar Pocket: Creates an extradimensional space within the caster’s clothing to safely house a familiar.
WotC, WSC1, Fanfare: Caster creates a blast of trumpets that stuns, deafens, and deals 4d6 sonic damage.
WotC, WSC1, Fang Cloud: Creates a 20-ft. radius cloud of tiny, flying teeth dealing 2d6 damage per round.
WotC, WSC1, Favorable Sacrifice: Caster makes an offering of 100gp–25,000gp to gain DR and resistances based on value.
WotC, WSC1, Favor of the Martyr: Subject (Paladin) gains immunity to charm, fear, fatigue, and pain for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC1, Fear: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Fear.
WotC, WSC1, Fearsome Gaze: Caze attack causes targets to become shaken or frightened (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Feather Fall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Feather Fall.
WotC, WSC1, Feather Weight: Increases jump distance and reduces the weight of an object or creature by half.
WotC, WSC1, Feeblemind: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Feeblemind.
WotC, WSC1, Feedback: Caster deals 1d8 sonic damage per level of a spell currently being maintained by a target.
WotC, WSC1, Feliche’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Chaotic subtype that must be obeyed.
WotC, WSC1, Ferocity of Wild Animals: Caster and allies gain a +2 morale bonus to Strength and Dexterity (Druid/Ranger only).
WotC, WSC1, Festivus: Creates an area of illusory celebration that fascinates creatures within (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Fetid Breath: 15-ft. cone of foul air causes targets to become nauseated for 1 round (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Field of Ghouls: Any creature at 0 hp must save or die and immediately rise as a ghoul.
WotC, WSC1, Fiendish Clarity: Caster gains darkvision 60 ft., sees in magical darkness, and can See Invisibility.
WotC, WSC1, Fiendish Quickening: Caster can cast two spells of 3rd level or lower as a single standard action once per day.
WotC, WSC1, Find the Gap: Caster’s first attack each round ignores target's armor and natural armor bonuses.
WotC, WSC1, Find the Path: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Find the Path.
WotC, WSC1, Find Traps: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Find Traps.
WotC, WSC1, Finger of Death: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Finger of Death.
WotC, WSC1, Fin To Feet: Transforms a creature's fins into legs, allowing land movement for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC1, Fire and Brimstone: A burst of fire deals 1d6/level damage and potentially sickens targets.
WotC, WSC1, Freezing Sphere: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Freezing Sphere.
WotC, WSC1, Frostbreath: 30-ft. cone of frost deals 1d4 cold damage/2 levels and potentially dazes targets. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC1, Fuse Arms: Targets with multiple arms find them fused into a single pair, gaining Strength but losing extra attacks.
WotC, WSC1, Gaseous Form: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Gaseous Form.
WotC, WSC1, Gate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Gate.
WotC, WSC1, Geas/Quest: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Geas/Quest.
WotC, WSC1, Gemjump: Caster teleports to the location of a specifically prepared gemstone (Teleportation).
WotC, WSC1, General of Undead: Increases the number of HD of undead the caster can control by 4 times their level.
WotC, WSC1, Gentle Repose: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Gentle Repose.
WotC, WSC1, Ghostform: Caster becomes incorporeal, gaining a 50% miss chance and ability to pass through solid objects.
WotC, WSC1, Ghostly Tail: Creates a spectral tail that allows the caster to make attacks of opportunity with reach.
WotC, WSC1, Ghost Touch Weapon: Touched weapon deals full damage to incorporeal creatures.
WotC, WSC1, Ghoul Touch: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ghoul Touch.
WotC, WSC1, Giant Size: Subject's size increases to Huge or Colossal, gaining massive Strength and reach.
WotC, WSC1, Girallon’s Blessing: Subject sprouts an extra pair of arms, allowing for additional attacks.
WotC, WSC1, Glass Strike: Transforms an object or creature into glass (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Glibness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Glibness.
WotC, WSC1, Glitterdust: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Glitterdust.
WotC, WSC1, Globe of Invulnerability: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Globe of Invulnerability.
WotC, WSC1, Golem Enlightenment: Touched golem gains Intelligence, allowing it to take feats and skills.
WotC, WSC1, Goodberry: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Goodberry.
WotC, WSC1, Grave Strike: Caster can deliver sneak attacks against undead for 1 round (Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Grease: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Grease.
WotC, WSC1, Greenfire: Caster creates a wall of green fire dealing 2d6 + 1/level damage.
WotC, WSC1, Grounding: Protects the subject from electricity damage by shunting the energy into the earth.
WotC, WSC1, Guidance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Guidance.
WotC, WSC1, Guiding Light: 20-ft. radius burst outlines targets, granting +2 to ranged attacks against them.
WotC, WSC1, Gust of Wind: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Gust of Wind.
WotC, WSC1, Haboob: Creates a 20-ft. radius sandstorm dealing 1d4 damage/round and obscuring vision.
WotC, WSC1, Hail of Stone: A rain of rocks deals 1d4 damage/level in a 5-ft. radius (No Save/No SR).
WotC, WSC1, Hallow: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hallow.
WotC, WSC1, Halt: Target must stop moving immediately and cannot move for 1 round (Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Halt Undead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Halt Undead.
WotC, WSC1, Hardening: Permanently increases the hardness of an object by 1 per 2 levels.
WotC, WSC1, Harmonize: Caster can start bardic music as a move action rather than a standard action.
WotC, WSC1, Harm: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Harm.
WotC, WSC1, Haste: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Haste.
WotC, WSC1, Heal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Heal.
WotC, WSC1, Healing Circle: Heals allies in a 30-ft. radius for 1d8 + 1/level (max +20).
WotC, WSC1, Healing Spirit: Summons a ball of light that heals 1d8 + 1/level to one creature per round.
WotC, WSC1, Heart of Air: Subject gains +10 to Jump and fly speed; can expend for Feather Fall.
WotC, WSC1, Heart of Earth: Subject gains temporary hit points (2/level) and +8 against bull rush; can expend for Stoneskin.
WotC, WSC1, Heart of Fire: Subject gains +10 ft. land speed and fire resistance 10; can expend for Fire Shield.
WotC, WSC1, Heart of Water: Subject can breathe water and gains swim speed; can expend for Freedom of Movement.
WotC, WSC1, Heat Metal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Heat Metal.
WotC, WSC1, Helping Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Helping Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Herald’s Call: Shouts a word that slows and potentially dazes creatures of 5 HD or less.
WotC, WSC1, Heroes' Feast: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Heroes' Feast.
WotC, WSC1, Heroism: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Heroism.
WotC, WSC1, Hibernation: Puts a touched animal into a deep, healing sleep for 1 day/level.
WotC, WSC1, Hideous Laughter: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hideous Laughter.
WotC, WSC1, Hindering Light: Subject is protected from light-based attacks and gaze attacks for 1 round/level [Wizard's Spell Compendium Vol 1].
WotC, WSC1, Hold Animal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hold Animal.
WotC, WSC1, Hold Monster: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hold Monster.
WotC, WSC1, Hold Person: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hold Person.
WotC, WSC1, Hold Portal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hold Portal.
WotC, WSC1, Hold Undead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Halt Undead.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Aura: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Holy Aura.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Shield: Caster’s shield provides its bonus to all adjacent allies for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Smite: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Holy Smite.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Star: Creates a mote that can provide AC, reflect spells, or fire rays.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Sword: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Holy Sword.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Transformation: Caster takes on an angelic form, gaining +4 Str/Con and wings.
WotC, WSC1, Holy Word: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Holy Word.
WotC, WSC1, Horrid Wilting: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Horrid Wilting.
WotC, WSC1, Hound of Doom: Caster’s shadow becomes a Medium-sized hound that fights with the caster's BAB.
WotC, WSC1, Howling Chain: Creates a chain of force that trips and strikes foes for 2d6 damage.
WotC, WSC1, Hunter’s Eye: Caster gains +1d6 sneak attack damage per 3 levels for 1 round (Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Hunter’s Mercy: Caster’s next hit with a bow is an automatic critical hit.
WotC, WSC1, Hydrate: Touched creature is cured of fatigue and dehydration.
WotC, WSC1, Hypnotic Pattern: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hypnotic Pattern.
WotC, WSC1, Hypnotism: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Hypnotism.
WotC, WSC1, Ice Axe: Creates an axe of ice that deals 2d12 + 1/2 levels cold damage as a touch attack.
WotC, WSC1, Ice Dagger: Deals 1d4 cold damage and potentially deals splash damage to adjacent targets.
WotC, WSC1, Ice Flowers: Chunks of ice and soil erupt, dealing 1d6 damage/level (half cold, half bludgeoning).
WotC, WSC1, Ice Knife: Ray deals 2d8 cold damage and 2 Dexterity damage (Reflex half).
WotC, WSC1, Ice Storm: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ice Storm.
WotC, WSC1, Identify: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Identify.
WotC, WSC1, Illusory Feast: 20-ft. radius of illusory food fascinates and dazes creatures (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Illusory Script: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Illusory Script.
WotC, WSC1, Illusory Wall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Illusory Wall.
WotC, WSC1, Immolation: Caster’s body explodes in fire, dealing 1d6/level damage and then resurrecting.
WotC, WSC1, Implacable Pursuer: Caster gains +10 to track and knows target's direction constantly.
WotC, WSC1, Implosion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Implosion.
WotC, WSC1, Imprisonment: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Imprisonment.
WotC, WSC1, Improve Fog: Increases the density of existing fog, granting total concealment.
WotC, WSC1, Incendiary Cloud: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Incendiary Cloud.
WotC, WSC1, Incite: Target must attack the nearest creature immediately (Will negates; Swift Action).
WotC, WSC1, Inevitable Defeat: Touched target takes 3d6 nonlethal damage/round and is fatigued.
WotC, WSC1, Infernal Threnody: Caster plays a song that deals 2 points of Str/Dex damage/round to Good outsiders.
WotC, WSC1, Infernal Transformation: Caster takes on a devilish form, gaining +4 Str/Con and a bite.
WotC, WSC1, Inflict Light Wounds: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Inflict Light Wounds.
WotC, WSC1, Inhibitor: Prevents a target from using a specific feat or special ability for the duration.
WotC, WSC1, Inner Beauty: Subject gains a +4 sacred bonus to Charisma and Dexterity.
WotC, WSC1, Insanity: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Insanity.
WotC, WSC1, Insignia of Alarm: All wearers of a specific insignia become aware of a mental alarm.
WotC, WSC1, Insignia of Blessing: Insignia wearers gain +1 morale bonus on attacks and saves against fear.
WotC, WSC1, Insignia of Healing: Insignia wearers are cured of 1d8 + 1/level damage.
WotC, WSC1, Insignia of Warding: Insignia wearers gain +1 deflection to AC and +1 resistance to saves.
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Invisibility.
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility, Greater: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Invisibility, Greater.
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility, Mass: As Invisibility, but affects all creatures in a 180-ft. radius. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility Purge: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Invisibility Purge.
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility Sphere: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Invisibility Sphere.
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility to Animals: Animals cannot see or smell the subject (1 subject/level).
WotC, WSC1, Invisibility to Undead: Undead cannot see or smell the subject (1 subject/level).
WotC, WSC1, Iron Body: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Iron Body.
WotC, WSC1, Iron Silence: Touched armor no longer applies its armor check penalty to Hide and Move Silently.
WotC, WSC1, Ironskin: Subject gains a +4 natural armor bonus and DR 5/adamantine.
WotC, WSC1, Ironguard: Subject becomes immune to nonmagical metal weapons; they pass through the body.
WotC, WSC1, Ironwood: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ironwood.
WotC, WSC1, Irresistible Dance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Irresistible Dance.
WotC, WSC1, Jagged Tooth: Touched natural weapon’s critical threat range is doubled.
WotC, WSC1, Janus Vision: Caster can see in all directions simultaneously, gaining a +4 bonus on Spot/Search and immunity to flanking.
WotC, WSC1, Jaws of the Wolf: Creates 1d4 Small wooden wolves that transform into actual wolves to fight.
WotC, WSC1, Jump: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Jump.
WotC, WSC1, Just Cause: Caster gains a +1 morale bonus on attacks and saves for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Justice of the Wyrm: Caster grows scales and claws, gaining +4 natural armor and two claw attacks.
WotC, WSC1, Karma Blessing: Caster gains a +4 sacred bonus on their next caster level check.
WotC, WSC1, Keen Edge: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Keen Edge.
WotC, WSC1, Keen Senses: Subject gains low-light vision and a +2 competence bonus on Listen and Spot.
WotC, WSC1, Kelgore’s Fire Bolt: Deals 1d6 damage/level (max 5d6); if SR is not overcome, it still deals 1d6.
WotC, WSC1, Kelgore’s Grave Mist: 20-ft. radius mist deals 1d6 damage/round and fatiguing creatures.
WotC, WSC1, Knock: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Knock.
WotC, WSC1, Know Direction: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Know Direction.
WotC, WSC1, Know Greatest Enemy: Caster determines which creature in a 60-ft. cone has the highest CR.
WotC, WSC1, Know Opponent: Caster learns one specific weakness or resistance of a single target.
WotC, WSC1, Know Vulnerabilities: Caster learns all energy vulnerabilities and resistances of the target.
WotC, WSC1, Komodo Strike: Touched natural weapon deals 1d4 poison damage (Constitution) on a hit.
WotC, WSC1, Kutriel’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Evil subtype that must be obeyed.
WotC, WSC1, Languor: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Strength penalty and Slows the target.
WotC, WSC1, Lantern Light: Caster fires rays of light (1 ray/2 levels) dealing 1d6 damage to evil creatures.
WotC, WSC1, Last Breath: Restores life to a creature that died within the last round (no level loss).
WotC, WSC1, Last Judgment: Evil creature with 100 hp or less is sent to a lower plane (die).
WotC, WSC1, Launch Bolt: Caster magically launches a crossbow bolt as if from a light crossbow.
WotC, WSC1, Launch Item: Caster magically flings a fine item (vials, rocks) up to 100 ft. + 10 ft./level.
WotC, WSC1, Leomund’s Secret Chest: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Secret Chest.
WotC, WSC1, Leomund’s Secure Shelter: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Secure Shelter.
WotC, WSC1, Leomund’s Tiny Hut: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Tiny Hut.
WotC, WSC1, Levitate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Levitate.
WotC, WSC1, Life's Grace: Subject is immune to death effects, energy drain, and negative energy.
WotC, WSC1, Light: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Light.
WotC, WSC1, Light of Lunia: Caster glows; can fire two bolts of 1d6 damage (2d6 vs undead).
WotC, WSC1, Light of Mercuria: Caster glows; can fire two bolts of 2d6 damage (4d6 vs undead).
WotC, WSC1, Light of Venya: Caster glows; can heal 1d6+1 or deal 3d6 to undead with bolts.
WotC, WSC1, Lightning Bolt: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Lightning Bolt.
WotC, WSC1, Lightning Ring: Electricity wreathes caster; fires two bolts of 5d6 electricity damage per round.
WotC, WSC1, Limited Wish: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Limited Wish.
WotC, WSC1, Lion's Roar: Allies in 120 ft. gain 1d8+1/level temporary HP and +1 on attacks/saves.
WotC, WSC1, Liquid Fire: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6/level fire damage; continues for 1 round.
WotC, WSC1, Listening Lorecall: Caster gains +4 Listen/Spot; if 5 ranks in Listen, gains blindsense.
WotC, WSC1, Locate Creature: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Locate Creature.
WotC, WSC1, Locate Object: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Locate Object.
WotC, WSC1, Longstrider: Subject's base land speed increases by 10 ft. for 1 hour/level. PHB/SRD
WotC, WSC1, Low-Light Vision: Subject sees twice as far as a human in starlight/moonlight.
WotC, WSC1, Lucent Lance: Ray of light deals 1d6/level damage and blinds for 1 round (Fortitude partial).
WotC, WSC1, Lullaby: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Lullaby.
WotC, WSC1, Mage Armor: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mage Armor.
WotC, WSC1, Mage Armor, Greater: As Mage Armor, but provides a +6 armor bonus.
WotC, WSC1, Mage Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mage Hand.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Circle against Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Circle against Evil.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Conclave: Caster and allies within 30 ft. share spell slots and metamagic effects.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Fang: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Fang.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Jar: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Jar.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Missile: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Missile.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Mouth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Mouth.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Vestment: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Vestment.
WotC, WSC1, Magic Weapon: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Magic Weapon.
WotC, WSC1, Magnifying Chime: Creates a tone that deals 1d6 sonic damage/level to crystalline creatures.
WotC, WSC1, Major Creation: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Major Creation.
WotC, WSC1, Major Image: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Major Image.
WotC, WSC1, Make Whole: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Make Whole.
WotC, WSC1, Mantle of the Icy Soul: Subject permanently gains the Cold subtype.
WotC, WSC1, Maze: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Maze.
WotC, WSC1, Melf’s Acid Arrow: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Melf's Acid Arrow.
WotC, WSC1, Mending: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mending.
WotC, WSC1, Message: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Message.
WotC, WSC1, Meteor Swarm: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Meteor Swarm.
WotC, WSC1, Mind Blank: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mind Blank.
WotC, WSC1, Mind Fog: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mind Fog.
WotC, WSC1, Minor Creation: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Minor Creation.
WotC, WSC1, Minor Image: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Minor Image.
WotC, WSC1, Mirror Image: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mirror Image.
WotC, WSC1, Mirror Image, Greater: As Mirror Image, but one image is restored each round.
WotC, WSC1, Misdirection: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Misdirection.
WotC, WSC1, Mislead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mislead.
WotC, WSC1, Mnemonic Enhancer: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mnemonic Enhancer.
WotC, WSC1, Modify Memory: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Modify Memory.
WotC, WSC1, Moment of Prescience: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Moment of Prescience.
WotC, WSC1, Monks’s Hardened Fist: Subject's unarmed strike deals damage as if two sizes larger.
WotC, WSC1, Monster Thrall: Permanently dominates one creature (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Mount: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mount.
WotC, WSC1, Move Earth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Move Earth.
WotC, WSC1, Mud to Rock: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Mud to Rock.
WotC, WSC1, Murderous Mist: 20-ft. radius cloud deals 2d6 fire damage and blinds targets.
WotC, WSC1, Muro’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Good subtype that must be obeyed.
WotC, WSC1, Nature’s Favor: Animal gains a luck bonus on attack and damage rolls.
WotC, WSC1, Nauseating Breath: 30-ft. cone of gas causes subjects to become nauseated.
WotC, WSC1, Necrotic Cyst: Caster implants a cyst in a target, making them vulnerable to necrotic magic.
WotC, WSC1, Neutralize Poison: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Neutralize Poison.
WotC, WSC1, Night’s Caress: Touched target takes 1d6/level damage and 1d6-2 Con damage.
WotC, WSC1, Nightmare: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Nightmare.
WotC, WSC1, Night's Mantel: Caster is wreathed in shadow, gaining a +4 bonus to Hide and concealment in dim light AD&D 2e Archive.
WotC, WSC1, Nightshield: Caster gains a +1 to +3 resistance bonus on saves and is immune to Magic Missile.
WotC, WSC1, Nightstalker’s Transformation: Caster gains +4 Dex, +3 luck bonus to AC, evasion, and 3d6 sneak attack.
WotC, WSC1, Nimbus of Light: Caster glows; can discharge for 1d8 + 1/level damage against undead/evil.
WotC, WSC1, Node Door: Caster teleports between two "earth nodes" within range.
WotC, WSC1, Nondetection: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Nondetection.
WotC, WSC1, Nunn’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Neutral subtype that must be obeyed.
WotC, WSC1, Nybor’s Mild Admonishment: Target is dazed for 1 round and distracted (–2 penalty) for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC1, Nybor’s Stern Reproof: Target must save or die; if it saves, it is dazed and sickened.
WotC, WSC1, Nybor’s Wrathful Reprimand: Target must save or die; if it saves, it is stunned for 1d4 rounds.
WotC, WSC1, Obscuring Mist: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Obscuring Mist.
WotC, WSC1, Obscuring Snow: Creates a 30-ft. radius of swirling snow that functions as Obscuring Mist.
WotC, WSC1, Octopus’s Mask: Subject gains a +10 competence bonus on Hide and can change color.
WotC, WSC1, Omen of Peril: Caster learns if the next hour will bring "safety," "caution," or "danger."
WotC, WSC1, One with the Land: Caster gains a +2 link bonus to Handle Animal, Hide, Move Silently, Search, and Spot.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Acid: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 15d6); no save/no SR.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Acid, Lesser: As Orb of Acid, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Cold: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially dazes.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Cold, Lesser: As Orb of Cold, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Electricity: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 electricity damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially entangles.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Electricity, Lesser: As Orb of Electricity, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Fire: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially dazes.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Fire, Lesser: As Orb of Fire, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Force: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 force damage/level (max 10d6); no save/no SR.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Sound: Ranged touch attack deals 1d6 sonic damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially deafens.
WotC, WSC1, Orb of Sound, Lesser: As Orb of Sound, but deals 1d8 damage + 1d8 per two levels (max 5d8).
WotC, WSC1, Order’s Wrath: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Order's Wrath.
WotC, WSC1, Organic Disruption: Ray deals 1d6 damage/level (max 15d6) to Plant or Ooze types.
WotC, WSC1, Orient Self: Caster instantly knows their direction and location relative to a landmark.
WotC, WSC1, Otto’s Irresistible Dance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Irresistible Dance.
WotC, WSC1, Otto’s Lucrative Luminescence: Objects in a 20-ft. radius glow; grants a +10 bonus on Spot and Search.
WotC, WSC1, Overwhelm: Touched target takes nonlethal damage equal to its current hit points (Will negates).
WotC, WSC1, Owl’s Wisdom: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Owl's Wisdom.
WotC, WSC1, Owl’s Wisdom, Mass: As Owl’s Wisdom, but affects one subject/level in a 30-ft. radius.
WotC, WSC1, Panacea: Instantly cures nearly all negative conditions and heals 1d8 + 1/level.
WotC, WSC1, Paralyzing Touch: Caster’s touch paralyzes a creature for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC1, Passwall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Passwall.
WotC, WSC1, Pass without Trace: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Pass without Trace.
WotC, WSC1, Path of Frost: Creates a path of ice that deals 1d6 cold damage and causes creatures to slip.
WotC, WSC1, Pa’s Command: A specific command given to a creature of the Air subtype that must be obeyed.
WotC, WSC1, Pervasive Vision: Caster gains a +10 insight bonus on Search/Spot and can see through 1 ft. of solid material.
WotC, WSC1, Phantasmal Killer: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Phantasmal Killer.
WotC, WSC1, Phantom Battle: Creates an illusory melee; creatures within are considered flanked.
WotC, WSC1, Phantom Steed: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Phantom Steed.
WotC, WSC1, Phantom Wolf: Summons a spectral wolf with 12 HD that can run on air.
WotC, WSC1, Phase Door: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Phase Door.
WotC, WSC1, Pillars of Sand: Creates one 5-ft. pillar of sand per 2 levels to lift objects or block paths.
WotC, WSC1, Plague Carrier: Touched creature becomes a carrier for a disease, spreading it via contact.
WotC, WSC1, Plague of Rats: Summons one rat swarm per level to attack a specified area.
WotC, WSC2, Planar Ally: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Planar Ally, Lesser. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC2, Planar Binding: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Planar Binding, Lesser.
WotC, WSC2, Planar Bubble: Creates a 10-ft. radius area around a creature that emulates the traits of its home plane.
WotC, WSC2, Plane Shift: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Plane Shift.
WotC, WSC2, Plant Growth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Plant Growth.
WotC, WSC2, Pocket Cave: Creates an extradimensional 20-ft. cube cave inside a small crevice or hole.
WotC, WSC2, Poison: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Poison.
WotC, WSC2, Poison Thorns: Caster sprouts thorns that deal 1d4 damage + poison (1d2 Str) to grapplers.
WotC, WSC2, Polymorph: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Polymorph.
WotC, WSC2, Polymorph Any Object: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Polymorph Any Object.
WotC, WSC2, Portal Beacon: Caster identifies the destination and properties of all portals within 60 ft.
WotC, WSC2, Positive Energy Aura: Caster emits a 10-ft. aura that heals living creatures 1 hp/round.
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Blind: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Power Word Blind.
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Kill: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Power Word Kill.
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Maladroit: Target with 100 hp or less takes 2d4 Dexterity damage (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Nauseate: Target with 150 hp or less is nauseated for 1d4+1 rounds (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Pain: Target with 100 hp or less takes 1d6 damage/round for several rounds (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Petrify: Target with 100 hp or less is turned to stone (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Sicken: Target with 100 hp or less is sickened for 1d4+1 rounds (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Stun: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Power Word Stun.
WotC, WSC2, Power Word Weaken: Target with 100 hp or less takes 2d4 Strength damage (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Prayer: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Prayer.
WotC, WSC2, Primal Form: Caster takes the form of a Medium elemental (Air, Earth, Fire, or Water).
WotC, WSC2, Primal Speed: Caster gains a +10 ft. bonus to speed and +5 on Reflex saves for 1 hour/level.
WotC, WSC2, Prismatic Ray: Caster fires a single ray that deals a random effect to one target.
WotC, WSC2, Prismatic Sphere: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Prismatic Sphere.
WotC, WSC2, Prismatic Spray: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Prismatic Spray.
WotC, WSC2, Prismatic Wall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Prismatic Wall.
WotC, WSC2, Produce Flame: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Produce Flame.
WotC, WSC2, Programmed Image: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Programmed Image.
WotC, WSC2, Project Image: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Project Image.
WotC, WSC2, Protection from Arrows: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Protection from Arrows.
WotC, WSC2, Protection from Chaos/Evil/Good/Law: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Protection from Evil.
WotC, WSC2, Protection from Energy: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Protection from Energy.
WotC, WSC2, Protection from Spells: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Protection from Spells.
WotC, WSC2, Proximal Mount: Caster summons their special mount from any distance to an adjacent square.
WotC, WSC2, Puppeteer: Caster controls the subject's physical movements while the subject remains conscious.
WotC, WSC2, Purify Food and Drink: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Purify Food and Drink.
WotC, WSC2, Pyrotechnics: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Pyrotechnics.
WotC, WSC2, Quill Blast: Caster’s body explodes with quills, dealing 1d6 damage/level and penalizing targets.
WotC, WSC2, Quillfire: Caster’s hand sprouts quills that can be thrown for 1d8 + poison damage.
WotC, WSC2, Radiant Shield: Subject is wreathed in light; deals 1d6+1/level electricity damage to melee attackers.
WotC, WSC2, Rage: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Rage.
WotC, WSC2, Raise Dead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Raise Dead.
WotC, WSC2, Ram’s Might: Touched creature’s natural weapons deal damage as if one size larger.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Clumsiness: Ray deals 1d6 + 1/2 levels Dexterity penalty for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Deanimation: Ray deals 1d6 damage/level to a single construct.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Dizziness: Ray makes target only able to take a single move or standard action each round.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Enfeeblement: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ray of Enfeeblement.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Exhaustion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ray of Exhaustion.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Flame: Ray deals 1d6 fire damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially ignites the target. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Ice: Ray deals 1d6 cold damage/level (max 15d6) and potentially freezes the target in place.
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Sickness: Ray causes the target to become sickened for 1 round/level (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Stupidity: Ray deals 1d4+1 Intelligence damage to the target (minimum Intelligence 1).
WotC, WSC2, Ray of Weakness: Ray deals a –2 penalty to attack rolls and 1d6 points of Strength damage.
WotC, WSC2, Read Magic: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Read Magic.
WotC, WSC2, Reciprocal Gyre: Deals 1d12 damage per spell level of active magical effects on the target (max 25d12).
WotC, WSC2, Reduce Person: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Reduce Person.
WotC, WSC2, Regenerate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Regenerate.
WotC, WSC2, Reincarnate: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Reincarnate.
WotC, WSC2, Relentless Inspections: Subject is compelled to search an area, becoming distracted and taking AC penalties.
WotC, WSC2, Remove Blindness/Deafness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Remove Blindness/Deafness.
WotC, WSC2, Remove Curse: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Remove Curse.
WotC, WSC2, Remove Disease: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Remove Disease.
WotC, WSC2, Remove Fear: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Remove Fear.
WotC, WSC2, Remove Paralysis: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Remove Paralysis.
WotC, WSC2, Repel Vermin: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Repel Vermin.
WotC, WSC2, Repel Wood: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Repel Wood.
WotC, WSC2, Repulsion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Repulsion.
WotC, WSC2, Resilience: Caster gains damage reduction 10/magic for 1 round (Immediate Action).
WotC, WSC2, Resist Energy: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Resist Energy.
WotC, WSC2, Resistance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Resistance.
WotC, WSC2, Restoration: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Restoration.
WotC, WSC2, Resurrection: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Resurrection.
WotC, WSC2, Reverse Gravity: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Reverse Gravity.
WotC, WSC2, Revival: Restores life to a creature that died within the last round (no level loss).
WotC, WSC2, Revivify: As Revival, but creature is restored at –1 hp and stable.
WotC, WSC2, Righteous Might: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Righteous Might.
WotC, WSC2, Righteous Wrath of the Faithful: Allies gain +3 morale bonus to attacks/damage and an extra attack.
WotC, WSC2, Ring of Blades: Spectral blades deal 1d6 + 1/level damage to adjacent creatures.
WotC, WSC2, Rope Trick: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Rope Trick.
WotC, WSC2, Ruby Ray of Reversal: Ray negates one harmful environmental effect or opens locks.
WotC, WSC2, Rusting Grasp: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Rusting Grasp.
WotC, WSC2, Sacred Haven: Allies within 30 ft. gain a +2 deflection bonus to AC.
WotC, WSC2, Sanctuary: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sanctuary.
WotC, WSC2, Sandform: Caster becomes a cloud of sand, gaining DR 10/magic and fluid movement.
WotC, WSC2, Scintillating Pattern: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Scintillating Pattern.
WotC, WSC2, Scorching Ray: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Scorching Ray.
WotC, WSC2, Scouring Weapon: Touched weapon deals +1 acid damage/level and potentially sickens.
WotC, WSC2, Scry: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Scrying.
WotC, WSC2, Seal Portal: Permanently seals an interplanar portal (can be dispelled).
WotC, WSC2, Searing Light: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Searing Light.
WotC, WSC2, See Invisibility: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as See Invisibility.
WotC, WSC2, Seeming: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Seeming.
WotC, WSC2, Sending: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sending.
WotC, WSC2, Sensorineural Transfer: Caster and subject share all sensory input across any distance.
WotC, WSC2, Sepia Snake Sigil: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sepia Snake Sigil.
WotC, WSC2, Sequester: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sequester.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Binding: 20-ft. radius burst of shadows entangles and dazes creatures.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Conjuration: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shadow Conjuration.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Evocation: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shadow Evocation. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Form: Caster becomes a living shadow, gaining +10 on Stealth and ability to pass through cracks.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Landscape: Transforms natural terrain into a shadowy version; hinders movement and empowers shadow magic.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Mask: Caster’s face is obscured, granting a +4 bonus on saves against light/gaze attacks.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Phase: Subject becomes partially incorporeal, gaining a 50% miss chance against nonmagical attacks.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Spray: 5-ft. radius burst deals 2 points of Strength damage and dazes targets.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Walk: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shadow Walk.
WotC, WSC2, Shadow Weapon: Creates a +1 Ghost Touch weapon of shadow that deals 1d6 damage.
WotC, WSC2, Shambler: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shambler.
WotC, WSC2, Shapechange: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shapechange.
WotC, WSC2, Shards: Caster fires a 15-ft. cone of crystal shards dealing 1d6 damage/level.
WotC, WSC2, Shatter: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shatter.
WotC, WSC2, Shield: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shield.
WotC, WSC2, Shield of Faith: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shield of Faith.
WotC, WSC2, Shield of Law: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shield of Law.
WotC, WSC2, Shield Other: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shield Other.
WotC, WSC2, Shifting Paths: Changes appearance of terrain to misdirect travelers (Will disbelief).
WotC, WSC2, Shillelagh: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shillelagh.
WotC, WSC2, Shivering Touch: Touched target takes 3d6 Dexterity damage (No Save).
WotC, WSC2, Shocking Grasp: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shocking Grasp.
WotC, WSC2, Shout: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shout.
WotC, WSC2, Shrink Item: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Shrink Item.
WotC, WSC2, Signs of Influence: Caster gains +4 on Charisma checks against subjects of lower status.
WotC, WSC2, Silence: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Silence.
WotC, WSC2, Silent Image: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Silent Image.
WotC, WSC2, Silverbeard: Caster’s beard turns to silver, granting a +2 sacred bonus to AC.
WotC, WSC2, Silver Claws: Touched creature’s natural weapons are treated as silver for bypassing DR.
WotC, WSC2, Simbul’s Spell Matrix: Caster prepares up to four spells (3rd level or lower) to be triggered later as swift actions.
WotC, WSC2, Simulacrum: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Simulacrum.
WotC, WSC2, Sirine’s Grace: Caster gains +4 Charisma and Dexterity, swim speed, and water breathing.
WotC, WSC2, Slay Living: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Slay Living.
WotC, WSC2, Sleep: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sleep.
WotC, WSC2, Sleet Storm: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sleet Storm.
WotC, WSC2, Slow: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Slow.
WotC, WSC2, Snake’s Swiftness: One ally immediately makes a single melee or ranged attack.
WotC, WSC2, Sniper’s Eye: Caster gains +10 Spot, darkvision, and sneak attack range up to 60 ft.
WotC, WSC2, Snowball Swarm: Flurry of snowballs deals 2d6 cold damage (max 5d6).
WotC, WSC2, Soften Earth and Stone: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Soften Earth and Stone.
WotC, WSC2, Solid Fog: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Solid Fog.
WotC, WSC2, Sonic Blast: 60-ft. cone of sound deals 1d4 sonic damage/level and potentially deafens.
WotC, WSC2, Sonic Might: Caster’s next sonic spell deals +1d6 damage and potentially stuns.
WotC, WSC2, Sonic Shield: Caster is wreathed in sound; +4 deflection bonus and deals 1d8 sonic damage to attackers.
WotC, WSC2, Sonic Weapon: Touched weapon deals +1d6 sonic damage on each hit.
WotC, WSC2, Soul Bind: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Soul Bind.
WotC, WSC2, Sound Burst: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sound Burst.
WotC, WSC2, Speak with Animals: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Speak with Animals.
WotC, WSC2, Speak with Dead: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Speak with Dead.
WotC, WSC2, Speak with Plants: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Speak with Plants.
WotC, WSC2, Spectral Hand: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spectral Hand.
WotC, WSC2, Spell Immunity: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spell Immunity
WotC, WSC2, Spell Resistance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spell Resistance. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC2, Spell Turning: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spell Turning.
WotC, WSC2, Spellmantle: Caster is wreathed in light; absorbs up to 1d4+6 spell levels and converts them to healing.
WotC, WSC2, Spider Climb: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spider Climb.
WotC, WSC2, Spider Curse: Touched target is transformed into a Drider or Medium spider (Fortitude negates).
WotC, WSC2, Spike Growth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spike Growth.
WotC, WSC2, Spike Stones: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spike Stones.
WotC, WSC2, Spirit Jaws: Creates spectral jaws that grapple a target and deal 2d6 damage per round.
WotC, WSC2, Spiritual Weapon: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Spiritual Weapon.
WotC, WSC2, Splinterbolt: Caster fires wood splinters dealing 1d6 damage/level; threatens a critical hit on 18-20.
WotC, WSC2, Stabilize: All creatures in 40-ft. radius at –1 to –9 hp are instantly stabilized.
WotC, WSC2, Stand: Subject stands up from prone as an immediate action without provoking attacks of opportunity.
WotC, WSC2, Statue: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Statue.
WotC, WSC2, Stay the Hand: Target must save or be unable to complete an attack against the caster (Immediate Action).
WotC, WSC2, Steeldance: Creates two force daggers that hover and attack adjacent foes for 1d4 + 1/level damage.
WotC, WSC2, Stinking Cloud: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Stinking Cloud.
WotC, WSC2, Stone Body: Caster’s body becomes living stone, gaining DR 10/adamantine and multiple immunities.
WotC, WSC2, Stone Shape: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Stone Shape.
WotC, WSC2, Stone Spiders: Transforms 1 to 3 stones into Medium or Large monstrous spiders.
WotC, WSC2, Stoneskin: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Stoneskin.
WotC, WSC2, Stone Tell: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Stone Tell.
WotC, WSC2, Stone to Flesh: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Stone to Flesh.
WotC, WSC2, Storm of Vengeance: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Storm of Vengeance.
WotC, WSC2, Storm Tower: Creates a tower of swirling wind that negates ranged attacks.
WotC, WSC2, Strategic Charge: Subject gains Mobility feat and a +2 bonus on attack rolls when charging.
WotC, WSC2, Strength of Mind: Subject gains immunity to all mind-affecting effects for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC2, Stretch Weapon: Increases reach of a melee weapon by 5 ft. for a single attack.
WotC, WSC2, Suggestion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Suggestion.
WotC, WSC2, Summon Monster I-IX: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Summon Monster.
WotC, WSC2, Summon Nature's Ally I-IX: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Summon Nature's Ally.
WotC, WSC2, Summon Undead I-V: Summons skeletons, zombies, or ghouls for 1 round/level.
WotC, WSC2, Sunbeam: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sunbeam.
WotC, WSC2, Sunburst: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sunburst.
WotC, WSC2, Surefoot: Subject gains a +10 enhancement bonus on Balance, Climb, Jump, and Tumble checks.
WotC, WSC2, Surelife: Caster is protected from one specific environmental condition for 1 min./level.
WotC, WSC2, Swift Expeditious Retreat: As Expeditious Retreat, but cast as a Swift action.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Death: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Death.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Fear: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Fear.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Insanity: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Insanity.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Pain: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Pain.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Persuasion: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Persuasion.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Sleep: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Sleep.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Stunning: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Stunning.
WotC, WSC2, Symbol of Weakness: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Symbol of Weakness.
WotC, WSC2, Sympathetic Vibration: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sympathetic Vibration.
WotC, WSC2, Sympathy: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Sympathy.
WotC, WSC2, Tactical Precision: Allies within 20 ft. gain a +2 insight bonus on attack rolls when flanking.
WotC, WSC2, Telekinesis: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Telekinesis.
WotC, WSC2, Telepathic Bond: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Telepathic Bond.
WotC, WSC2, Teleport: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Teleport.
WotC, WSC3, Teleportation Circle: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Teleportation Circle. AD&D 2e Archive
WotC, WSC3, Teleport, Greater: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Teleport, Greater.
WotC, WSC3, Teleport Object: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Teleport Object.
WotC, WSC3, Temporal Stasis: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Temporal Stasis.
WotC, WSC3, Tensers Transformation: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Transformation.
WotC, WSC3, Time Stop: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Time Stop.
WotC, WSC3, Tongue of Angels: Subject gains a +4 sacred bonus on Diplomacy and can speak with any Good creature.
WotC, WSC3, Tongues: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Tongues.
WotC, WSC3, Touch of Fatigue: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Touch of Fatigue.
WotC, WSC3, Touch of Idiocy: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Touch of Idiocy.
WotC, WSC3, Transmute Mud to Rock: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Transmute Mud to Rock.
WotC, WSC3, Transmute Rock to Mud: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Transmute Rock to Mud.
WotC, WSC3, Transport via Plants: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Transport via Plants.
WotC, WSC3, Tree Shape: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Tree Shape.
WotC, WSC3, Tree Stride: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Tree Stride.
WotC, WSC3, True Resurrection: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as True Resurrection.
WotC, WSC3, True Seeing: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as True Seeing.
WotC, WSC3, True Strike: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as True Strike.
WotC, WSC3, Undead Bane Weapon: Touched weapon deals +2d6 damage against undead and gains +2 enhancement.
WotC, WSC3, Unholy Aura: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Unholy Aura.
WotC, WSC3, Unholy Blight: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Unholy Blight.
WotC, WSC3, Unseen Servant: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Unseen Servant.
WotC, WSC3, Vampiric Touch: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Vampiric Touch.
WotC, WSC3, Veil: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Veil.
WotC, WSC3, Ventriloquism: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Ventriloquism.
WotC, WSC3, Virtuous Armor: Touched subject gains a +2 sacred bonus to AC.
WotC, WSC3, Vision: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Vision.
WotC, WSC3, Wail of the Banshee: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wail of the Banshee.
WotC, WSC3, Wall of Fire: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wall of Fire.
WotC, WSC3, Wall of Force: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wall of Force.
WotC, WSC3, Wall of Ice: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wall of Ice.
WotC, WSC3, Wall of Iron: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wall of Iron.
WotC, WSC3, Wall of Stone: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wall of Stone.
WotC, WSC3, Wall of Thorns: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wall of Thorns.
WotC, WSC3, Warp Wood: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Warp Wood.
WotC, WSC3, Water Breathing: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Water Breathing.
WotC, WSC3, Water Walk: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Water Walk.
WotC, WSC3, Wave of Grief: 30-ft. cone causes targets to take a –3 penalty on attack rolls and saves.
WotC, WSC3, Weapon of Energy: Touched weapon deals +1d6 acid, cold, electricity, or fire damage.
WotC, WSC3, Web: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Web.
WotC, WSC3, Weird: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Weird.
WotC, WSC3, Whirlwind: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Whirlwind.
WotC, WSC3, Whispering Wind: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Whispering Wind.
WotC, WSC3, Wind Wall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wind Wall.
WotC, WSC3, Wish: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wish.
WotC, WSC3, Wood Shape: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Wood Shape.
WotC, WSC3, Word of Chaos: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Word of Chaos.
WotC, WSC3, Word of Recall: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Word of Recall.
WotC, WSC3, Wyvern Watch: Creates a hazy image of a wyvern that paralyzes any creature approaching its guarded object.
WotC, WSC3, Zone of Truth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Zone of Truth
WotC, PSC1, Abat-dolor: Target's sense of pain is suppressed; provides immunity to pain-based penalties and +10 temporary hit points for 1 min./level. Priest's Spell Compendium Vol 1
WotC, PSC1, Abbey’s Aegis: Creates a 20-ft. radius ward that provides a +4 deflection bonus to AC and +4 resistance bonus on saves for 1 hour/level.
WotC, PSC1, Abjure: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Dismissal.
WotC, PSC1, Able-light: Caster sheds a 30-ft. radius of bright light that specifically outlines invisible or magically hidden objects.
WotC, PSC1, Abnegation: Target must save or be unable to use a specific feat or supernatural ability for the duration (Will negates).
WotC, PSC1, Abnormal Growth: Increases the size of a single plant or limb by two categories, dealing 2d6 damage if a limb is affected.
WotC, PSC1, Abominable Form: Caster's appearance becomes so horrific that targets in a 30-ft. radius are panicked (Will negates).
WotC, PSC1, Aboriginal Form: Subject reverts to a primitive state, losing Int/Cha but gaining +4 Str/Con for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Absolve: Caster removes one minor curse or "taint" from a subject; functions as Remove Curse, Lesser.
WotC, PSC1, Absorb Damage: Caster takes half of all damage dealt to a touched ally; damage is stored and can be discharged as a touch attack.
WotC, PSC1, Abyssal Might: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength and Constitution and DR 5/cold iron (Evil).
WotC, PSC1, Accelerate: Subject gains an extra move action each round for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Acclimatize: Subject can survive and function in extreme temperatures or pressure environments for 1 hour/level.
WotC, PSC1, Accuser’s Eye: Creates an invisible, floating eye that observes a target and reports back to the caster.
WotC, PSC1, Acid Spray: 30-ft. cone deals 1d6 acid damage/level (max 10d6); target takes 1d6 damage next round.
WotC, PSC1, Acoustic Barrier: Creates a 10-ft. wall that blocks all sound and deals 1d6 sonic damage to those passing through.
WotC, PSC1, Acquire Sight: Caster can see through the eyes of a touched willing subject for 1 min./level.
WotC, PSC1, Adamantine Armor: Touched armor gains +5 hardness and DR 5/adamantine for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Adaptability: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to a single ability score of choice for 10 min./level.
WotC, PSC1, Adder’s Strike: Caster’s unarmed strikes deal +1d6 acid damage and 1 point of Strength damage.
WotC, PSC1, Adhere: Touched object or creature becomes sticky, granting a +10 bonus on grapple checks.
WotC, PSC1, Admonish: Caster shouts a rebuke; target is dazed for 1 round and shaken for 1d4 rounds (Will negates).
WotC, PSC1, Adroit Mapping: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on Knowledge (Dungeons) or (Geography) for 1 hour.
WotC, PSC1, Advanced Sight: Caster gains Darkvision 120 ft. and can see through magical smoke/fog for 10 min./level.
WotC, PSC1, Adverse Currents: Creates a 40-ft. radius in water where swimming requires a DC 20 check; speed is halved.
WotC, PSC1, Adverse Weather: Caster creates a localized storm that deals 1d4 nonlethal damage/round and penalizes ranged attacks.
WotC, PSC1, Aerial Alacrity: Subject gains a +30 ft. enhancement bonus to fly speed and maneuverability improves by one category.
WotC, PSC1, Aeromancy: Caster gains a +5 bonus on Survival checks to predict weather and can hear whispers on the wind.
WotC, PSC1, Affect Fires: Caster can double or halve the size and brightness of any nonmagical fire in a 40-ft. radius.
WotC, PSC1, Affirmation: Caster grants one ally a +2 morale bonus on all attack rolls and saving throws for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Affliction: Subject is struck with a chosen non-magical disease immediately; deals 1d4 damage to an ability score.
WotC, PSC1, Aftersight: Caster views the events that occurred in their current location up to 1 hour/level ago.
WotC, PSC1, Age Dragon: Caster forces a dragon to age 1d4 categories; stats shift accordingly (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PSC1, Age Golem: Touched construct takes 1d6 damage/level and its speed is halved due to structural decay.
WotC, PSC1, Age Object: Instantly ages a nonmagical object by 10 years/level; can cause rot or rust.
WotC, PSC1, Age Plant: Increases the age of a plant by 1 year/level; can cause saplings to become trees.
WotC, PSC1, Agganazar’s Scorcher: Creates a 5-ft.-wide, 30-ft.-long line of fire dealing 1d6/level damage.
WotC, PSC1, Agility: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Dexterity for 1 min./level.
WotC, PSC1, Agitate: Target becomes irritable and aggressive, taking a –2 penalty on Diplomacy and AC.
WotC, PSC1, Agonizing Blast: 15-ft. radius burst deals 1d8/level nonlethal damage and stuns for 1 round.
WotC, PSC1, Agony: Target is wracked with pain, taking a –4 penalty on all d20 rolls (Will negates).
WotC, PSC1, Aid: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Aid.
WotC, PSC1, Airboat: Creates a boat-shaped cloud that can carry 4 people and flies at 60 ft. for 1 hour/level.
WotC, PSC1, Air Breathing: Touched subjects can breathe air easily for 2 hours/level.
WotC, PSC1, Air Lens: Creates a lens of air that can fire a 1d6/level fire ray once per round (Concentration).
WotC, PSC1, Air of Nobility: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and a +10 bonus on Diplomacy.
WotC, PSC1, Air of Truth: 20-ft. radius zone where all creatures must pass a Will save or be unable to speak lies.
WotC, PSC1, Air Shield: Creates wind around the subject that provides +4 AC vs ranged attacks and disperses gases.
WotC, PSC1, Air Staff: Touched quarterstaff deals +1d6 electricity damage and can fire Gust of Wind.
WotC, PSC1, Alacrity: Subject gains a +10 ft. enhancement bonus to speed and +1 on initiative for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Al-Aziz’s Fire: Caster fires a bolt of blue fire dealing 1d8/level damage; ignores the first 5 points of Fire Resistance. Priest's Spell Compendium Vol 1
WotC, PSC1, Alchemical Blast: Caster hurls a glob of magical liquid that explodes for 1d6 damage/level (random energy type).
WotC, PSC1, Alcorn’s Astral Body: Subject's physical body becomes partially astral, gaining DR 10/magic and 50% miss chance vs non-magical.
WotC, PSC1, Aldin's Alacrity: Increases the subject's base land speed by 30 ft. and grants an extra move action each round.
WotC, PSC1, Alertness: Subject gains a +4 insight bonus on Listen and Spot checks and cannot be flat-footed.
WotC, PSC1, Algebral: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on all Intelligence-based checks involving math or navigation.
WotC, PSC1, Alienation: Subject is perceived as a stranger by all allies; Charisma-based checks take a –10 penalty (Will negates).
WotC, PSC1, Aligned Aura: Caster emits a 20-ft. aura of their alignment; allies of the same alignment gain +2 to AC and saves.
WotC, PSC1, Align Weapon: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Align Weapon.
WotC, PSC1, Alisander’s Alarum: Creates a mental trigger that alerts the caster if a specific named individual enters a 1-mile radius.
WotC, PSC1, All-Around Vision: Subject can see in all directions, gaining a +4 bonus on Spot/Search and immunity to flanking.
WotC, PSC1, Allegro: Caster and allies gain a +30 ft. speed bonus and +2 bonus to Dexterity for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Alliance: Two willing subjects share the benefits of any morale-based buffs cast on either of them.
WotC, PSC1, Allisander’s Antidote: Touched subject gains a +8 resistance bonus on saves against all non-magical poisons.
WotC, PSC1, All-Knowing Eye: Caster can see through 1 foot of stone or 1 inch of metal for 1 round/level.
WotC, PSC1, Alter Aura: Caster changes the perceived alignment or power level of a magical aura to fool Detect spells.
WotC, PSC1, Alter Fortune: Caster forces a reroll of a single d20 roll just made by any creature within 30 ft. (Immediate Action).
WotC, PSC1, Alter Instrument: Magically tunes or detunes an instrument, providing a +5 or –5 penalty on Perform checks.
WotC, PSC1, Alter Liquid: Transforms 1 gallon/level of one non-magical liquid into another (e.g., water to oil).
WotC, PSC1, Alter Normal Fires: Caster can double or halve the size and brightness of any nonmagical fire in a 40-ft. radius.
WotC, PSC1, Alter Self: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Alter Self.
WotC, PSC1, Alternate Reality: Caster shifts to a timeline where a recent event (last 1 round) did not occur.
WotC, PSC1, Amalgamate: Touched objects or substances are fused into a single seamless unit.
WotC, PSC1, Amanuensis: Copies nonmagical text at a rate of 1 page per round.
WotC, PSC1, Amber Entombment: Targets in a 10-ft. radius are encased in transparent amber; subjects are in stasis (Fortitude negates).
WotC, PSC1, Ambush: Caster and allies within 20 ft. gain a +10 competence bonus on Hide and Move Silently.
WotC, PSC1, Ameliorate: Caster reduces the severity of a condition (e.g., Exhausted becomes Fatigued).
WotC, PSC1, Amorphous Form: Subject becomes malleable, gaining immunity to critical hits and passing through small gaps.
WotC, PSC1, Amplify: Increases the volume of all sounds in a 20-ft. radius, granting a +10 bonus on Listen checks.
WotC, PSC1, Amplitude: Caster triples the effective range of a single divine spell cast in the next round.
WotC, PSC1, Amputate: Touched target must save or a single non-vital limb is severed; deals 1d6 Constitution damage.
WotC, PSC1, Amuse: Creates minor illusory sparks or sounds that provide a +2 morale bonus on Charisma checks.
WotC, PSC1, Anachrony: Subject is shifted 1d4 rounds into the future; they disappear and reappear in the same spot.
WotC, PSC1, Analyze: Caster learns the exact numerical value of one attribute (HP, AC, or a Stat) of the target.
WotC, PSC1, Analyze Portal: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Analyze Portal.
WotC, PSC1, Anarchy: 30-ft. radius burst of chaos deals 1d8/2 levels damage and confuses lawful creatures.
WotC, PSC1, Ancestral Ghost: Summons a spectral ancestor to serve as a guide or a Shadow.
WotC, PSC1, Ancestral Vengeance: Touched target takes 1d6 damage/level if they have harmed the caster's family line.
WotC, PSC1, Anchor: Caster creates a magical tether; they can teleport back to it as a move action.
WotC, PSC1, Ancient Blessing: Caster grants a +2 sacred bonus on saves vs. Spells and +1 to Caster Level.
WotC, PSC1, Ancient Curse: Subject is afflicted with a chosen permanent penalty (e.g., –4 to an ability score) (Will negates).
WotC, PSC1, Andary’s Armor: Subject's natural armor bonus increases by +4 and they gain DR 5/magic.
WotC, PSC1, Anesthesia: Subject becomes immune to pain-based penalties and cannot feel physical touch.
WotC, PSC1, Anger: Subject enters a rage, gaining +4 Strength and Constitution but –2 AC.
WotC, PSC1, Angered Flame: Fire source deals double damage (2d6 per round) and expands in size.
WotC, PSC1, Angstrom’s Alarum: Caster is alerted if any invisible or ethereal creature enters a 60-ft. radius.
WotC, PSC1, Animal Allure: Caster gains a +10 competence bonus on Handle Animal and can communicate with a specific species.
WotC, PSC1, Animal Growth: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animal Growth.
WotC, PSC1, Animal Magnetism: Subject gains a +4 enhancement bonus to Charisma and a +5 bonus on checks against animals.
WotC, PSC1, Animal Messenger: Note: Standardized in 3.5e as Animal Messenger.
